<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 55: SD 2: Old Friends, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s18" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 2: Old Friends</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <p class="calibre6">It was the sort of night that would have fit in late autumn:
      cold, wet, and dark. It had no place in early summer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius Malfoy pulled his cloak tighter around him for warmth.
      All this sneaking around in the dark was so... trite. And hardly
      fair. He doubted the members of the Order of the Phoenix ever had
      to deal with disastrously upset sleep schedules caused by these
      late-night rendezvous. Lucius glanced around to make sure no-one
      was watching, then blew his nose in an undignified fashion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was just the sort of blunder typical of the new
      administration. As a criminal organization, they couldn't just meet
      at a cafe someplace and talk about their evil plans, now could
      they? Ergo, they <em class="calibre7">had</em> to meet in cold, dark, wet forests on
      cold, dark, wet nights. Or so the logic went, Lucius supposed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Because the simple fact of the matter was that they
      <em class="calibre7">could</em> just meet in a cafe someplace. Every single member
      of their select group was a fully capable wizard or witch. There
      was absolutely no reason they could not all Apparate to a gourmet
      coffee shop at a corner in, say, Luxembourg. Or Kyoto. Or
      Shanghai.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were countless places where they could scream, in English,
      their intention to commit murder and sow discord and such at the
      top of their lungs and receive nothing more than a strange look
      from the locals—all the while enjoying a fine Chianti, or perhaps a
      latte.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some form of furry woodland creature—Lucius neither knew nor
      cared which—scurried away from him as he walked to the meeting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He half expected Riddle to appear from a bolt of lightning, or
      perhaps descending from the sky.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A black shadowy form appeared in front of him. Despite himself,
      Lucius smiled. Briefly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was the very picture of wholesome youth, well-dressed,
      clean-cut, with a serious, sincere expression on his face.
      Everything about him said: trust me. I'm intelligent, reliable, and
      not-at-all a maniac.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Only a born liar could look so honest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle smiled, wand in hand, sword belted at his hip.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Greetings, Malfoy," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Thud</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo hit the ground—<em class="calibre7">hard</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You did that on purpose," he muttered accusingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked around, but there wasn't much to see. Wherever he was,
      it was cool, dark, and had a hard stone floor. A <em class="calibre7">very</em> hard
      stone floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Light</em>," he muttered, but nothing happened. Of
      course—he'd died and come back. He shouldn't have expected his
      memorized spells to survive the process.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He poked himself, just to check that he was really real.
      <em class="calibre7">Yup</em>, he thought. <em class="calibre7">Hit points, skills, feats, abilities,
      it's all here.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Except for his equipment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Well. Crap</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Generally speaking, most people assume that Fighters and
      Paladins and whatnot are far more dependent on their gear than
      spellcasters. And for most spellcasters, that's true. Take away a
      Druid's scimitar and she can still turn into a tyrannosaurus rex.
      Take away a Sorcerer's spear and she probably won't recognize it,
      having never seen it since she bought it 'just in case' with her
      extra cash at level one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But take away a Wizard's spellbook, and he's got
      <em class="calibre7">nothing</em>. Milo had to spend an hour every morning pouring
      over his spellbook just to refresh his daily spells, and without
      that, he's just a Commoner with a high Will save and a magic
      rat—saving, in Milo's case, for the rat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">What do muggles do when they need light?</em> Milo wondered.
      He'd gotten so used to everyone around him being a single word and
      a flick of a stick away from magical illumination that he'd almost
      forgotten what it had been like.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Torches. Adventurers <em class="calibre7">always</em> carried torches. Even Milo
      did, in his Belt of Hidden Pouches, though he rarely used them.
      Milo wondered what would become of that belt, now. It was probably
      decorating the Chamber of Secrets, along with the rest of his old
      gear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And his old body, for that matter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now <em class="calibre7">there</em> was a weird thought. He had a new body. It
      <em class="calibre7">felt</em> the same as the last one, and Milo knew that, if he
      had a mirror, it would <em class="calibre7">look</em> the same—but it wasn't.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo felt vaguely resentful of that. It may have been scrawny,
      and maybe it looked a little malnourished around the edges, and, he
      supposed, it had an interesting collection of scars and old
      injuries, but it was his body, dammit, and he was quite attached to
      it. So to speak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shook his head, focusing. He was on a time limit, here. An
      arbitrary and capricious time limit, sure, but a time limit,
      nevertheless.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo's eyes slowly adjusted to the darkness. He was in a
      large-ish circular room that seemed slightly familiar, somehow.
      There were a few lumpy shapes scattered across the floor. Milo
      crawled his way over to the nearest one, feeling around with his
      hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He touched tough leather. He felt around, and found straps and
      buckles. A backpack. Milo grinned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few minutes later, he was holding a lit torch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There wasn't a backpack in the whole of Creation that didn't
      have fifty feet of rope, a couple of torches, and flint and steel
      in it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Milo saw what the backpack was connected to, he almost
      dropped the torch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah Abbot lay in bed. It wasn't that she couldn't sleep. It
      was just that she didn't really see the point.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She idly fingered a crudely made, lopsided, slightly battered
      silver rose. After a few minutes, she pinned it to the front of her
      nightshirt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm bored," she whispered. It was a lie, but it was the words,
      not the meaning, that was important.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Squeak!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A brown-and-white hamster appeared in her hands, composed of
      equal parts fluff and pudge, appeared in her hands. Milo had once
      told her that it used magic to look deep inside her mind and formed
      its shape to maximize cuteness. She wasn't sure how true that was,
      because Milo had once told her that the smallest possible unit of
      measurement was five feet and that carbon wasn't a real
      element.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But, for one reason or another, it felt hollow, now. Like it was
      trying too hard. It didn't seem... real.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Maybe the magic was fading. Or maybe it was just her. Cuteness
      didn't seem to have the same appeal that it used to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They'd never found Milo. The <em class="calibre7">Daily Prophet</em> said, in a
      tiny footnote on the fourth page of section H, that he'd run off.
      But when Hannah had asked Hermione if she knew anything, she'd seen
      the look on her face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And that was the last time Hermione had talked to her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione obviously knew something, but just as obviously wished
      she didn't.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Was Milo... had something happened to him? Had someone taken
      him? Or was he... could he be...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He wasn't dead, was he?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The hamster froze for a moment, staring her dead in the eye.
      Like it was... listening for something. It was uncanny; it had
      never done anything like that before. It seemed to make some kind
      of decision, then it did scurried off of her bed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But it didn't fall. It just sort of... floated there, looking
      around. It glanced back at her, and she got that feeling again, as
      if it was ruffling through her thoughts. Then it floated over to
      her bedside table, pulled open a drawer, and found a pen. It was a
      practical, Muggle ball-point design that could write for ages
      without running out of ink; being a halfblood had <em class="calibre7">some</em>
      advantages. She hated writing with a quill.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It looked around again, then fixed on a poster of a map of the
      world she kept on her wall. Without warning, it ripped it off the
      wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oi!" she hissed. She didn't want to wake her parents. "Put that
      back!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The hamster ignored her, and floated the map down next to her.
      She noticed that it wasn't actually <em class="calibre7">touching</em> the map with
      its paws. The map just... floated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The pen floated up, searched around for a while, then stabbed
      down on England with enough force that it tore clean through the
      paper. The hamster stared at her, as if expecting something.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She looked at the map. The pen was pointing at a
      seemingly-random point in North Somerset, twenty or so kilometers
      away from her home in Bristol.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay..." she said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The hamster flipped the map over. It moved the pen rapidly in a
      line straight across the page, lifting it from the paper seemingly
      at random. Then it moved down slightly and started it again. And
      again. And again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As it continued, she realized it was drawing a map of sorts,
      although it looked more like a photograph someone might take from
      airplane, or possibly broomstick.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a big 'X' drawn over an innocuous-looking hillock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah had pulled her school robes over her head and was
      climbing out the window, Cleansweep Seven in hand, before the ink
      was dry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was Gerard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There wasn't much left of the big Fighter himself, but Milo
      would recognize the scale mail and greatsword anywhere. They'd
      bought it together, years ago, after Milo had persuaded him that
      dual-wielding Bastard Swords was lunacy. He'd been skeptical of the
      idea until he'd Cleave'd his way through a dozen or so goblins and
      a gnoll shaman without breaking a sweat. Then he'd taken to it like
      an otyugh to a municipal composting program.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And now he was lying on Thamior's floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dammit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo looked around.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Zook, the gnome cleric, lay on the far side of the room. Well,
      what was left of Zook, anyway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was one more body. Milo didn't want to look. He didn't
      want to see Wellby.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">How had this happened?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sure, he'd disappeared in a critical battle, but... seriously.
      Had Thamior done this? <em class="calibre7">How</em> had Thamior done this? He was
      evil, sure, and he had a few levels on them, but... experience or
      not, he was such a two-bit villain. He was <em class="calibre7">cartoonishly</em>
      evil. Milo couldn't believe that he'd actually <em class="calibre7">won</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Maybe it was that his standards had been altered by his time in
      the other world. Pain and darkness there was... well, more darker
      and more painful. More <em class="calibre7">real</em>. It wasn't quite so... funny.
      Maybe he'd taken the new world so seriously that he'd forgotten
      that his world could be cruel, too?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked at the bodies around him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Was this his fault? Sure, he hadn't chosen to be summoned away
      by Lucius and his cronies, but... if he was honest with himself, he
      hadn't tried all that hard to get back, either. He could take the
      Death Eaters that stayed out of prison. He'd done it before. He
      could have gotten the answers out of them, one way or another.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sure, for part of that time, he hadn't been completely in
      control of himself, but that was just making excuses. He'd barely
      even <em class="calibre7">thought</em> of returning. He'd gotten so wrapped up in
      the new world's—</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo's eyes narrowed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That wasn't Welby's body. Welby was a halfling, three and a half
      feet tall in thick-soled boots.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The third skeleton was at least two feet longer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo rushed over to the skeleton, holding the torch over it for
      close examination.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was Thamior.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We've been over this before! We agreed you <em class="calibre7">mustn't</em>
      tell him!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I agreed to no such thing! He has a <em class="calibre7">right</em> to
      know!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron sighed, and tried to distract himself flipping through
      <em class="calibre7">The Rise and Myriad Painful Falls of the Chudley Cannons</em>.
      It wasn't working. His parents had been fighting on-and-off all
      week when they thought he and his siblings couldn't hear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Any kid can tell you how much that sucks, but this was almost
      worse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Because they weren't fighting about him or his brothers, and
      they weren't fighting about each other, or about Dad's hidden
      flying car that he was working unreasonable hours.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But Harry's just a boy!" Molly Weasley protested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There it was. <em class="calibre7">Harry Potter</em>. Sure, he was Ron's best
      mate, and he wouldn't trade him for anyone in the world, but... It
      wasn't always easy, being best mates with the most famous boy in
      the world. Not that Ron would trade; <em class="calibre7">nobody</em> would want to
      be famous for the reasons Harry was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"With that lunatic on the loose, <em class="calibre7">nobody</em> can afford to
      be 'just a boy' any longer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Both of Ron's parents were silent for a moment, or at least not
      talking loudly enough for Ron to hear through the floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What happened, Arthur?" Molly's voice was quiet. Serious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You'll read about it in the morning <em class="calibre7">Prophet</em>," Arthur
      said. "I'm not supposed to—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's never stopped you before," Molly said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Arthur sighed. "He's killed again. But it gets worse. He—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I left the <em class="calibre7">Mark</em>!" Riddle said angrily. Petulantly,
      even. "Of <em class="calibre7">course</em> it was me!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had not taken Lucius's news well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps they don't want to believe you've returned, my lord,"
      Lucius said in a low, reasonable voice. Dealing with Riddle was
      always like this. "It's much easier for them to blame someone
      more... mundane." Lucius had taken advantage of this very fact many
      times in his career. People would believe <em class="calibre7">anything</em> other
      than that the Dark Lord, or his followers, were still active.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mundane? <em class="calibre7">Mundane</em>?! I'll show them mundane! I'll usher
      in an era of darkness like the world has never <em class="calibre7">seen</em>!"
      Lucius flinched. It was like reasoning with a viper.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course, my lord," Lucius said. "But perhaps, for now, it is
      efficacious to remain outside of the spotlight. After all, what
      they do not know cannot be defended against. If they instead
      believe that Sirius Black—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who the <em class="calibre7">Hell</em> is Sirius Black?" Riddle asked. "Was he a
      Death Eater?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No; he was a member of the Order of the Phoenix."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then why on Earth would people think <em class="calibre7">he</em> would leave a
      Dark Mark?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We framed him for..." Lucius paused for a moment. Talking about
      the Dark Lord's previous defeat was... a tricky subject. "...
      treachery. And a little murder. They threw him in Azkaban."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Azkaban? <em class="calibre7">Azkaban</em>? Then what's he doing out here taking
      credit for <em class="calibre7">my work</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He escaped," Lucius shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do not know, my lord." He <em class="calibre7">could</em> have used the same
      method Lucius had used to spring Black's deranged cousin, perhaps,
      though it didn't quite seem to be the Order's style. Of course,
      prison could change a man, and he wasn't certain the Order was even
      involved in this one. He felt no reason to share this with Riddle
      at this time, however.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle thought about this for a moment. Then he had... a Look.
      As if his eyes flashed red for a moment. And then all traces of
      anger and frustration were gone, and it was back to handsome,
      honest, trustworthy youth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you're saying that people will jump to blame this... Sirius
      Black... for whatever happens in the next few days?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius realized the danger in that question, but he'd backed
      himself into a corner. "Yes, my lord. Within reason."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Within reason. Of course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then he was gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An hour and a bit later, Milo left Thamior's tower behind him.
      He'd given his comrades the ceremonial adventurer's send-off (a
      touching ceremony consisting of rifling through the deceased's
      pockets for gold and magic items, followed by a hastily-dug grave,
      as is tradition).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo may not have had his companions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He may not have had his magic items.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He may not have had his spellbook.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But he didn't need them. He'd prepared for this exact
      circumstance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well. Close enough. With Uncanny Forethought he could cast any
      of a select few spells—<em class="calibre7">Benign Transposition</em>, <em class="calibre7">Feather
      Fall</em>, <em class="calibre7">Shatter</em>, and <em class="calibre7">Shadow Conjuration</em>—even
      without a spellbook. He could also spend a little time
      concentrating to cast any spell in his spellbook, of course, but he
      didn't <em class="calibre7">have</em> his spellbook—evidently it didn't count as
      'his' if it was in another universe. Or, for all he knew, Riddle
      had burnt it after killing him. Of the few available spells he
      could still count on using, many would be quite use-impaired here;
      they were rather highly specialized for taking down wanded
      wizards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He didn't have his spellbook.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But he <em class="calibre7">did</em> have Thamior's. Technically, he couldn't
      'prepare' spells from it—but he wasn't <em class="calibre7">preparing</em> them, was
      he? He was casting them spontaneously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a technicality, and a flimsy one at that, but it was one
      he intended to exploit to its fullest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Phantom Steed</em>," he muttered, testing his
      assumption.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A quasi-real, horselike steed flashed into existence next to
      Milo, wearing what looked like a saddle, bit, and bridle. It looked
      like a horse, but it probably could have given the Hogwarts Express
      a run for its galleons.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd found the spell in Thamior's book, which, irritatingly,
      seemed to be primarily made of spells that seemed sort of 'dark'
      and 'evil.' In addition to the questionable practicality of picking
      abilities based on their aesthetic and thematic value, most of them
      were Necromancy and Enchantment, schools forbidden to Milo. This
      one, though sort of ghosty looking, was a bog-standard Conjuration.
      Milo could have cast it in his sleep.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo climbed onto his smoke-coloured mount.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Boccob hadn't chosen him for this task because of his
      interesting collection of Bertie Bott's Every Flavour Beans. He had
      skills that weren't written on a character sheet, and he planned on
      using them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">Author's Notes:</strong> I have a blog now! Fanfiction
      doesn't like links, but I think you can figure it out. It's my
      penname and it's on tumblr. There are .pdf and .mobi versions of
      <em class="calibre7">Harry Potter and the Natural 20</em> and <em class="calibre7">Harry Potter and
      the Confirmed Critical</em> for download. I'll also post
      announcements and things there, and maybe, if I feel like it, the
      occasional blog post about DMing or optimizing or RPGs or whatnot,
      sort of like when I put D&amp;D tips in my stories. I'm new to the
      whole blog thing, so I'm not sure how much I'll end up using
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I'm changing the release day to Fridays. We're well on schedule
      for next week's release.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
