<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 57: SD 4: Dragon in a Half-Shell, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover ...</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s20" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 4: Dragon in a Half-Shell</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Abby Michaels set her quill down and waited for the ink to dry.
      Randal was finally starting to come around; they <em class="calibre7">had</em> to
      block Lucius's push for Severus Snape to keep his position as
      headmaster. The man was a world-class Potions Master, to be sure,
      and had many other admirable qualities, but managing teachers and
      small children were <em class="calibre7">not</em> among them. In fact, the rumours
      coming out of that school suggested that, sometimes, his teaching
      methods were borderline abusive. Minerva was by far the superior
      choice; being strict but fair, as well as reasonably well-liked
      among the students (at least, the well-behaved ones), and highly
      respected by the other teachers. Besides, she was Dumbledore's
      pick, and that should be enough reason for anyone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Honestly, Abby couldn't imagine why <em class="calibre7">anyone</em> would want
      Severus as headmaster. She suspected, in fact, that Lucius's
      methods for persuading some of the others of the Hogwarts Board of
      Governors had not been entirely ethical, but obviously had no
      proof. Regardless, the Board was favouring Minerva heavily on this
      issue—split 7-5 with Randal on the fence—so she wasn't overly
      worried.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just as she was about to tie the letter to the leg of her barn
      owl, Scratch, there was a knock on the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Abby sighed, put the letter down, and hobbled over to the door.
      The mediwizards at St. Mungo's said she should be walking with a
      cane, but she didn't see the use in one. She was far too old to
      start walking with a cane, in any case. She'd gotten by for
      eighty-eight years without; she didn't see why she should have to
      change now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She opened the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a handsome, earnest boy at the door about the age of
      her grandson.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello? Mrs. Michaels?" The boy asked, smiling politely. He
      looked vaguely familiar, though Abby couldn't quite put her finger
      on where she'd seen him last.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes?" she asked. "How can I help you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, it's a bit complicated," the boy said. "Do you mind if I
      come in and explain it to you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Something about the way he said it made it sound like such a
      reasonable request. Like she should invite him into her house
      without thinking. After all, it seemed to say, he's only a boy. And
      he's such an honest, responsible-looking boy. And familiar,
      too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What could be the harm in letting him come in to talk for a
      moment or two?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron sat across from Harry, enjoying Florean Fortescue's famous
      Flaming Fudge-flavoured ice cream. They'd been about to get their
      school books when they'd noticed Fortescue had a
      buy-one-get-one-free sale, and it was bloody hot, and, well...
      their decision had been made before they'd even realized there was
      a decision <em class="calibre7">to</em> make.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione was supposed to meet them, but she was a little late.
      Besides, she wouldn't approve of them eating ice cream; her parents
      were some sort of Muggle tooth-shamans or something.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you have any trouble getting the Muggles to sign the
      Hogsmeade consent form?" Ron asked. "Can't imagine they fancy the
      idea of you having, you know, an actual good time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nah," Harry said. "I waved it in their faces and they signed it
      just to get rid of me. I think Milo really had an impact on them
      last year. All I have to do is mention I write him every day, and
      they largely keep out of my hair. I can't imagine how I would have
      done it, otherwise."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron hesitated. "You don't reckon Hermione's right about him, do
      you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right about what?" It was Hermione, an oversized, empty book
      bag hanging from one shoulder, ready to be filled with, judging by
      the size, half the contents of Flourish and Blott's book store.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing," Harry said quickly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're talking about Milo again, aren't you?" Hermione said,
      pulling up a chair. "We've been over this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But it <em class="calibre7">feels</em> wrong," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course it does," Hermione said. "That's why treachery is so
      vile—and effective. It doesn't work if you don't trust the person
      doing it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you try to look at the facts objectively," Hermione said,
      "it all adds up. He appears out of nowhere—<em class="calibre7">summoned by Death
      Eaters</em>, no less—he exhibits inhuman healing abilities and
      strange magic, yet <em class="calibre7">nevertheless</em> is enrolled in an elite
      school and seems to pass <em class="calibre7">completely</em> unnoticed. And as soon
      as he shows up, look what starts to happen! The Defence Professor
      was possessed by what he <em class="calibre7">claims</em> to be You-Know-Who,
      students start being replaced by undercover dark wizards and
      witches—and don't even get me <em class="calibre7">started</em> on the Chamber of
      Secrets. The Basilisk was using <em class="calibre7">Milo's</em> secret passages to
      get around, and almost killed Professor McGonagall because of him.
      Then we kill the Basilisk, and <em class="calibre7">poof</em>! Milo disappears from
      the face of the earth."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't seriously think he was working with You-Know-Who, do
      you?" Ron asked scornfully. "I mean, <em class="calibre7">come on</em>. This is
      <em class="calibre7">Milo</em> we're talking about here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know what his plan was," Hermione said. "But he almost
      got us all killed. And I <em class="calibre7">don't</em> think he's human. His magic
      isn't at <em class="calibre7">all</em> like ours. It doesn't work on any of the same
      principles, and the two don't interact predictably. And you know
      what that sounds just like?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, because you've told us a million—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"House elves. And centaurs. And leprechauns. There are plenty of
      magical creatures out there with magic that isn't like
      ours—<em class="calibre7">just like his</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you're so sure he's a traitor, then," Ron said, "how come
      you're still taking care of his rat?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can hardly blame a pet for the crimes of its master,"
      Hermione said. "And besides, it's only until I find a new home for
      him. He bites, and my parents don't like him. Anyway, I'm just
      saying we should be on our guard. We need to look at the
      <em class="calibre7">facts</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was no use arguing with her. It was all the more irritating
      because she had a point, too—a lot of evidence <em class="calibre7">did</em> point
      to Milo being the one who opened the Chamber of Secrets.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They eventually made their way to the book shop. Rather than the
      usual, colourful posters advertising the latest hit seller
      (generally one of Lockhart's memoirs), the glass walls were
      plastered with wanted posters for Sirius Black.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who is this guy, anyway?" Harry asked. "The Muggles are after
      him, too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A murderer," Ron said. "My parents always hush up whenever they
      notice I'm listening, though. I think he was one of You-Know-Who's
      nuttiest supporters, back in the war, just behind Bellatrix. So
      they locked him up in Azkaban and threw away the key."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And be broke out, did he?" Harry asked. "The Muggle news says
      he's been killing people left and right."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It looks like he's been after Professor Dumbledore's old
      supporters," Hermione said. "But I don't think we have anything to
      worry about. Hogwarts is still the safest place for us, even
      without Dumbledore there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That was a chilling thought. Dumbledore had been suddenly sacked
      last year after the Basilisk had rampaged through the school, with
      McGonagall taking over as Headmistress—for about two minutes,
      before the Basilisk got her, too. She'd made a full recovery once
      the Mandrake root had grown up, and Ron couldn't wait for her to
      come back. She was better than Snape, that was for sure, but she
      was no Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Besides," Hermione continued, "they're taking this really
      seriously. I read the government's launching a nation-wide manhunt
      for him—<em class="calibre7">both</em> governments. He doesn't stand a chance."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, let's hope they catch him," Ron said, opening the door.
      "But I don't think it has anything to do with us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, Hermione," Harry said as they walked into the store. "How
      come you have such a big book bag?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because I'm going to get a lot of text books," she said. There
      was an implied '<em class="calibre7">obviously</em>' hanging in the air.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, sure," he said. "But how come you're going to get a lot
      of text books?" he asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No reason," she said quickly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Dark Way</em>!" Milo cast. It had been Thamior's favourite
      trick. A weightless, unbreakable, shadowy bridge appeared linking
      the gunwale to the crow's nest on the redundant, sail-less mast,
      blocking the Dragon Turtle's line of sight to Milo. "Do something!"
      he shouted at Relkin, who was ducking behind the wheel.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Inspirational Boost</em>. Working on it!" she called back.
      Milo could feel a <em class="calibre7">tip-tap-tippity-tap</em> through the
      floorboards. "Can you see me from there?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah. So?" Milo asked, flinching back from another blast of
      instant-death-steam.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm doing some inspiring tap dancing! Can't you tell?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo leaned out from behind his cover temporarily.
      "<em class="calibre7">Glitterdust</em>!" he cast, blasting the monster full in the
      face with its blinding, sparkly might.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not that it seemed to care, ignoring the bright lights
      altogether.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It has +9 to Will!" Relkin shouted. "Get your head in the
      game!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo had almost forgotten that people <em class="calibre7">could</em> make saves
      against his spells. The people in the other world almost never did;
      he suspected they didn't really <em class="calibre7">have</em> bonuses to saving
      throws. He was losing his edge.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Whirling Blade</em>!" Relkin cast, throwing her crystalline
      sword over her head at the dragon's face. Propelled forward by
      magic and vibrating in tune with her (sigh) <em class="calibre7">inspiring
      tapdancing</em>, the blade struck the dragon across its face,
      leaving a deep gouge, before returning to her outstretched
      hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was too windy for a <em class="calibre7">Solid Fog</em>, and the dragon was
      immune to fire, so <em class="calibre7">Scorching Ray</em> was right out. It was way
      too big for <em class="calibre7">Evard's Black Tentacles</em> to have any hope
      against, and any spell that required a save would be weakened by
      his lack of intelligence-boosting headgear. Thamior worked alone,
      and didn't have <em class="calibre7">any</em> proper buffs in his spellbook.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lacking any half-decent options, Milo fell back on his
      second-favourite school of magic: Divination.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Unluck</em>," Milo cast. Just for an instant, he felt like
      he could almost hear the sound of rolling dice. Other than that,
      nothing seemed to happen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Dragon Turtle roared, and its massive head came right at
      Milo, treating him to a decidedly unpleasant odour of cooked,
      rotting fish.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The dragon's bite missed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By like, ten feet. Milo hadn't even moved. The dragon blinked,
      confused, as if wondering how it could possibly have missed a
      stationary target like that. Milo grinned—his spell had clearly
      worked. The dragon would have to make every die roll twice and take
      the worse result.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Relkin's sword flew past the dragon's face, again, drawing
      blood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The creature roared in pain, and retreated under the water just
      as Zook and Gerard arrived on deck.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's happening?" Zook asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dragon Turtle," Milo said. "But it just submerged. So we don't
      need to worry about it for now unless it... wait..." Milo tried to
      recall what the most recent publications on the monster's abilities
      had said. Was it the Dragon Turtle that had the savagely effective
      capsize ability? "It's going to try to flip the ship!" Milo
      shouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Relkin's eyes widened. "The <em class="calibre7">Roll for Initiative</em> is only
      fifty feet long!" she said. "It gets a..." she frowned for a
      second, trying to remember exact wording.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"50% chance to knock us into the water," Milo said, "and unless
      something has changed, the only one here with ranks in Swim is
      wearing fifty pounds of steel," he said, nodding at Gerard.
      "Jacks-of-all-trades excluded, of course," he added to Relkin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do we do?" Zook asked. "I don't want to die again!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo's mind raced. They needed to lengthen the ship by at least
      ten feet to foil the turtle's ability. Probably, anyway. But how
      would they... Milo looked back up at the mast. It was just sitting
      there, contributing nothing but drag to the ship.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're going to need a lot of mass at the back of the ship in
      eighteen seconds," Milo said to the party as he ran towards the
      mast. "Figure it out, I don't care how."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The mast was basically an entire pine tree sticking out of the
      middle of the boat. Milo had no idea why Relkin had decided to
      include it on her skeleton-powered ship, but she was going to have
      to learn to live without it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo sized it up. It was about the right length, give or take
      five-ish feet. He reminded himself that what he was doing wasn't
      cutting it down. Not really, anyway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the other world, the price of various goods was determined by
      market forces. Factors like transportation, production, raw
      materials, taxes, fees, wages, and demand could cause prices to
      fluctuate unpredictably. This was the basis of Milo's salt
      trick—advances in mining technology and goods transportation had
      caused the price of salt to plummet from its historical value.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The value of goods in Milo's world was completely unrelated to
      the market, but instead dictated, essentially, by the gods.
      Everything—<em class="calibre7">everything</em>—had a fixed value that the universe
      ran on. This determined how an item was affected by certain spells,
      how long it took to craft, how much it cost to buy in a store, and
      approximately what difficulty of monster might be carrying it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Depending on the complexity of the item, Milo could craft a
      certain number of that item, measured by its value in silver
      pieces, in a given period of time. The cheaper the item, the faster
      he could make it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">A mast</em> might be big, heavy, and expensive, but a
      <em class="calibre7">quarterstaff</em> was free, with literally zero value. Ergo,
      Milo could craft one from a certain amount of raw materials—say, a
      conveniently located tree trunk—in an instant. Scaling up a weapon
      increased its value by a percentage based on its size, therefore
      increasing crafting time as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quick, what's a thousand percent of zero?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo tapped the mast with a finger, and it was instantly severed
      from the ship.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Feather Fall</em>," he cast, and it gently descended to the
      deck. "<em class="calibre7">Levitate</em>," he said after it touched down, causing
      it to lift off slightly. He gave it a gentle push towards the front
      of the ship, and followed it until just under half of the
      'quarterstaff' was sticking out over the water. Milo nudged the
      base such that it was just touching the deck of the ship. Then he
      glanced at the rear to see a tree growing from the deck.
      <em class="calibre7">Of</em> course <em class="calibre7">Relkin had some Feather Tokens</em>, he
      thought. <em class="calibre7">She's me. Sort of</em>. Then he grabbed a nearby
      length of rope—there's <em class="calibre7">always</em> rope nearby when you're on a
      boat—and tied it to the railing, dismissing his spell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Boom, instant boat extension. The longer the boat, the higher
      the roll the dragon turtle needed to capsize it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The boat rocked violently and yawed perilously as the dragon
      attacked from underneath. Water sprayed onto the deck—but it didn't
      flip.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Zook ran over to the edge of the boat and looked down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hit him with everything you've got!" Milo shouted at the
      Cleric. "His saves will be garbage for the next three rounds!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His holy symbol hanging around his neck flashed as he drew on
      his divine power to enhance his spells—specifically, to allow him
      to completely get around all metamagic-based restrictions via the
      incredibly overpowered Divine Metamagic feat. Milo was impressed;
      he didn't think the little Cleric had the head for that kind of
      optimization. It wasn't the most effective way of using the feat,
      necessarily, but it was a start.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Empowered Sound Lance</em>!" He called. A barely visible,
      translucent lance burst forth from his outstretched hands and into
      the water. As soon as it touched the surface, water exploded high
      into the air around them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Milo was hit full in the face with the fallout of the spell,
      he realized it wasn't <em class="calibre7">just</em> water that got kicked up by the
      spell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ewww," he said, wiping dragon blood out of his eyes with his
      sleeves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gerard, meanwhile, had been tying a rope around his waist for no
      discernible reason. "Hold this," he said, handing one end to
      Milo.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, sure," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks!" Gerard said, and, without another word, sprinted to
      the edge of the boat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo looked at the rope in his hands, then at the 200lb, 6'7"
      juggernaut running away from him. Then he looked back at the rope.
      Then up at Gerard, who had disappeared over the edge of the boat,
      greatsword in hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, sh—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The rope suddenly snapped tight, yanking Milo from his feet and
      pulling him bodily across the deck of the ship.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He just had enough time to see the railing moving towards him
      really, <em class="calibre7">really</em> fast before everything got painful and sort
      of confusing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo pulled himself together, then tied his end of the rope to a
      metal hook-thingy that seemed to have no particular purpose beyond
      being a thing to tie ropes to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few seconds later, Gerard came climbing back up the rope,
      panting and heaving as if carrying something heavy. He swung back
      over the deck, a huge grin on his face, the head of the Dragon
      Turtle in his hand. It was significantly larger than he was, and
      landed on the deck with a meaty <em class="calibre7">thud</em> that rocked the whole
      ship.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And <em class="calibre7">that</em>," Gerard said, "is how it's done."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are those... are those tears on its cheeks?" Zook asked,
      peering at the dragon's head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dragons don't have tear ducts," Milo said. "They can't
      cry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This one <em class="calibre7">learned</em>," Gerard said, wiping the blood from
      his sword.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
