<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 58: SD 5: City of Light, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s21" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 5: City of Light</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Milo couldn't sleep.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Or rather, he <em class="calibre7">could</em> sleep. Quite easily, in fact—as
      with everyone else from his world, he could fall asleep as easily
      as he could blink. It wasn't even an action. He just didn't want
      to, right now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He wasn't sleeping because he was worried, and decided to
      prioritize, in the way people do late at night, stressing
      ineffectually about tomorrow over sleep.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nobody had told him what happened to Myra
      (CityofLight!Cityof<em class="calibre7">Magic</em>!) while he was gone. They were
      very pointedly <em class="calibre7">not</em> talking about it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix Lestrange was loose in the city, and she was certainly
      up to no good. Milo had read about what she'd done in the last
      wizarding war. Apparently she'd tortured five people to insanity
      with the Cruciatus Curse for no reason other than that she'd
      enjoyed it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of course, that particular curse would do her little good
      here—Milo had demonstrated that to Tom Riddle in the Chamber of
      Secrets—but that wasn't her only asset.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo was worried because Bellatrix had every advantage here that
      Milo had had in the other world. She ran on different rules. Rules
      that <em class="calibre7">nobody</em> knew about, much less how to counter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo had gone up against Lucius's Death Eaters several times and
      won, not because he was a more powerful wizard, but because he was
      a <em class="calibre7">weirder</em> wizard. Draco Malfoy, of all people, had shown
      in the Duelling Club that a wanded wizard who'd done their homework
      had a very fair chance of beating him. He'd only lost because
      Milo'd had a handful more tricks up his sleeve than Draco had
      predicted. Milo had had to adapt rapidly to the new world, using
      spells and tricks that would have gotten him slaughtered here.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But here, it was <em class="calibre7">Bellatrix</em> who was the unknown factor.
      She had spells and powers that nobody here knew a thing about. She
      could ignore fundamental rules of the universe that her opponents
      would take for granted. She could act out of turn order. She could
      cast infinite spells every day. She could kill without allowing a
      saving throw. Of course, she could be countered in a few simple
      ways—such as using <em class="calibre7">Protection from Evil</em> against her
      Imperius Curse—<em class="calibre7">if</em> you knew how.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If Bellatrix played her cards right, Milo's home town wouldn't
      have stood a chance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And now, thanks, in part, to Tom Riddle, he had people here who
      he actually cared about.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And that's why Milo wasn't sleeping.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius Malfoy stubbed his toe through his leather loafers on an
      exposed tree root and cursed like a pirate, thankful that nobody
      had seen him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd had it up to <em class="calibre7">here</em> with these clandestine forest
      meetings.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're late, Malfoy." Lucius felt his whole body go still. When
      had <em class="calibre7">he</em> gotten here? How long had he been watching?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius turned around, slowly. Tom Riddle was lounging on a low
      tree branch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was delayed by a meeting that ran behind schedule, my lord,"
      Lucius said smoothly. "There was no way I could leave and maintain
      my cover. The fault, however, is mine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. The fault lies with <em class="calibre7">me</em> for expecting punctuality
      from <em class="calibre7">you</em>. However, I can be forgiven, as your other
      suggestion is working perfectly. Nobody suspects you had anything
      to do with the deaths."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius bristled inside, but kept it from his face. The reason
      nobody suspected he had anything to do with the deaths was because
      he <em class="calibre7">hadn't</em>. And this <em class="calibre7">hadn't</em> been his plan. When
      he'd said Sirius would make an excellent scapegoat, he hadn't
      expected <em class="calibre7">this</em>. The boy was insane. He had everything that
      had made the Dark Lord terrifying with none of the restraint.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what is the count now, my lord? Three?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Twelve," Riddle said happily. "Were I a gambling man, I
      wouldn't be placing any galleons on Minerva returning as
      headmistress of Hogwarts in September."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius licked his suddenly-dry lips. He'd been on the verge of
      getting Snape given the position permanently as it was. Now he'd
      have to start finding strings to attach to a whole new group of
      governors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what of the... last headmaster?" Lucius asked. "Has anyone
      found information as to his whereabouts?" Lucius knew full well
      that no-one had, because he had eyes-and-ears watching and
      listening the world over. But he had no intention of tipping Riddle
      off to that fact.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of course, the entire concept of locating the whereabouts of a
      wizard such as Dumbledore was ludicrous. When you could Apparate
      across the world with the snap of your fingers, could you really be
      said to have any whereabouts at all?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No, Lucius didn't care where the old headmaster was. He cared
      what he was up to. And on that, his sources had been irritatingly
      silent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dumbledore?" Riddle spat. "The man was older than the bloody
      <em class="calibre7">Magna Carta</em> even when I—" Riddle hesitated slightly.
      Someone less perceptive than Lucius wouldn't have noticed it. "—was
      in school," he finished smoothly. "I doubt we have much cause to
      worry about a senile old relic." Lucius suspected that Riddle had
      been about to say 'when I was <em class="calibre7">alive.</em>'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," Lucius said. "I only mention it because he has
      interfered with your plans in the past, my lord."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Regardless. I did not summon you here today to speak of ancient
      history," Riddle said, dropping down from the tree branch with the
      grace of a cat. "Tell me of the <em class="calibre7">boy</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Potter?" Lucius asked. "He's an unremarkable student at best,
      showing only moderate aptitude in any field of study. He's
      headstrong and has little regard for authority, but also only
      displaying only limited capacity for planning ahead. I doubt we
      have much to—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. The <em class="calibre7">other</em> boy. The one <em class="calibre7">you</em> brought
      here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius was genuinely surprised. One of the others at the ritual
      must have told him. "Milo? A freak. He wields extremely unusual and
      unpredictable magic of great power, but by all accounts appears to
      be completely insane. He disappeared midway through last year and
      has not been seen since. Nobody... official... is looking for him.
      I saw to that." Lucius glanced at the sword Riddle wore at his hip.
      Milo had had one just like it...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They won't find him anyway," Riddle said. "He's dead. No, I
      want to know about how you summoned him. And why."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah." Lucius hesitated. He hadn't expected this, and wasn't sure
      how much to tell the monster standing in front of him. "It was a
      very old ritual that Narcissa uncovered," he said eventually.
      <em class="calibre7">In</em> your <em class="calibre7">things</em>, he didn't add. This strange new
      Riddle seemed to be sometimes lacking in knowledge that the Dark
      Lord had had. "It seems to only have been used once—twice at the
      most—in all of history."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, yes," Riddle said. "But what did it <em class="calibre7">do</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It makes a trade," Lucius said. "Equivalent exchange. Sacrifice
      someone great, and get someone great in return. Or so we'd
      believed. It didn't work."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We tried to summon a great mythical wizard only hinted at in
      ancient texts from... the other side. We believed he would have the
      power to bring you back, my lord. There was only one viable
      candidate to create a fair trade. We gave them our greatest in
      return for theirs." Getting her out of Azkaban had been the hardest
      part of it, by far. "But even though we specified the great wizard
      by his name in the ritual, all we got was that freak instead. It
      seems there is an unknown factor involved, my lord. The ritual is
      too dangerous."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But it <em class="calibre7">did</em> work," Riddle said quietly, largely to
      himself. "He <em class="calibre7">did</em> bring me back. But maybe not in the way
      you had intended." He looked up at Lucius. "But that wasn't all of
      it, was it? There was more. A second step."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius frowned. How had he known about that? Lucius was an
      accomplished Occlumens, but if he wasn't, he'd have thought Riddle
      was reading his mind. "We had... a backup plan. But it is quite
      impossible, now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tell me of this backup plan, Malfoy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Our agent in the other world had an objective," Lucius said.
      "But with Milo dead, there is no way to bring her back, now. The
      point is moot." That wasn't, strictly speaking, true, but Lucius
      had no intention of experimenting with the ritual and other
      subjects.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what was that objective, Lucius?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius Malfoy could see no particular danger in telling him.
      Bellatrix's <em class="calibre7">real</em> mission, as far as he had been concerned,
      was to stay as far away from him as he could manage. She was
      charismatic, popular—well, among a certain kind of individual,
      anyway—and frighteningly talented with magic. She had also been the
      Dark Lord's favoured lieutenant. She was, in short, a threat to his
      position. Lucius had never had any intention of bringing her
      back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of course, he hadn't thought Voldemort would return,
      either...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Still. As long as the Dark Lord was around, Lucius needed to
      stay on his good side. And besides...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Looking into Tom Riddle's eyes, Lucius could absolutely believe
      that this was the Dark Lord returned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So he told him Bellatrix's objective.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the darkness of the forest, unbeknownst to either of the
      conversing dark wizards, an enormous black dog lay among the
      underbrush with its ears perked up...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Newhaven was pretty much your basic thorp. It wasn't much more
      than a cluster of one-to-three room cottages built around a
      combination tavern, livery stable, and general store.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was, as adventurers like to say, a one-quest town. Drop in,
      find the innkeeper's stolen family heirloom, stock up on trail
      rations, and leave. It was the sort of town that might get a
      passing mention in a sentence such as "you pass through a few small
      villages in your travels to the Forest of Shadows..." While
      nominally a fishing and farming town, most of the incoming money
      came from travellers, especially Player Characters, who happen to
      be passing through on their way to more interesting locales.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At least, that was how Milo remembered it. But that had been
      before someone had burnt the tavern to the ground and forced the
      residents to flee. They left, in fact, in such a hurry that they
      left some things behind: things like clothes, tools, and, in some
      cases, heads.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo stared at the ruins from the deck of the <em class="calibre7">Roll for
      Initiative</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Garl's Glittering Gold," Zook said in a hushed tone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What happened here?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We'd heard rumours of this sort of thing. I told you there were
      hints we ought to go to the City, didn't I?" Relkin said. "Soldiers
      have been rounding up anyone with even a Cantrip of magical talent
      and taking them away. Sometimes people raise an objection or two,
      and are made examples of." Relkin shrugged. "Typical evil villain
      stuff, really. I thought that grand vizier guy was behind it, but
      it's looking like it's this Lestrange person instead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And where were you through all of this?" Milo asked, trying to
      keep his voice as neutral as possible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know. Adventuring," Relkin said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Rescuing cats from treants, that sort of thing?" Milo said.
      "Getting treasure and Experience Points?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"With clockwork efficiency," Relkin said. "We went up three
      levels in the last year alone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And Wellby was a prisoner during this time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As far as we can tell, yes," Relkin said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you're saying that you let a hardened killer burn and kidnap
      her way through the countryside, with the only other person who
      might stop her out of action, while you were busy <em class="calibre7">level
      grinding</em>?" Milo stopped bothering to keep his voice in
      check.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Relkin stiffened. "I don't see why you're angry at <em class="calibre7">me</em>,"
      she said. "<em class="calibre7">Bellatrix</em> was the one who razed this town."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because you had a <em class="calibre7">responsibility</em> to stop her and you
      didn't even <em class="calibre7">try</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Milo—" Zook began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You weren't there," Zook said. "You didn't see her. We wouldn't
      have stood a chance the way we were."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Zook is right," Relkin said. "We <em class="calibre7">needed</em> the levels.
      Besides, they're only NPCs. Most of them haven't even been
      named."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You really don't get it, do you?" Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. Please, enlighten me." Relkin's voice was completely free
      of sarcasm, but Milo suspected her colossally-high Bluff skill
      might have been part of that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just because we didn't know them doesn't mean they didn't have
      names," Milo said. "NPC or not, they were people, just like
      us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just like you, maybe," Relkin said. "But who are you to talk? I
      don't see <em class="calibre7">you</em> coughing up your wealth-by-level to bring
      them back."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't even <em class="calibre7">have</em> a wealth-by-level anymore," Mio
      said. "All I've got are the clothes on my back and a spellbook
      written on human skin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Zook coughed and surreptitiously sidled to the far side of the
      ship.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's an excuse and you know it," Relkin said. "That Belt of
      Hidden Pouches you used to have? Five thousand gold pieces. Same as
      it costs for a <em class="calibre7">Raise Dead</em>. You could have used that money
      to bring back, say..." She scanned the horizon briefly, "that one."
      She pointed at the body of a small humanoid, probably a gnome or
      halfling, lying in the street. At least, Milo <em class="calibre7">hoped</em> it was
      a gnome or halfling. "And if we just so happen to find a Headband
      of Intelligence in our travels, I somehow doubt you'll sell it to
      bring back, say, him." Relkin pointed at a dwarf lying against a
      well, riddled with arrows.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo said nothing. The fact that Relkin was right did nothing to
      improve his mood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Together, they watched the village roll past them. Milo was
      tired. It had been so much easier when he'd been like Relkin. These
      sorts of quandaries never even occurred to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were all kinds of arguments that Milo could make to defend
      himself. He could say that he'd earned his right to expensive
      magical gear by defeating monsters. He could say that he needed it
      to fight evil and protect the innocent. He could say that it was
      inherent to the system that heroes gained treasure. He could say
      that even Paladins collected expensive magical gear, and their
      moral position was unquestionable. After all, if they did wrong,
      they'd stop being Paladins. He could have Zook cast <em class="calibre7">Detect
      Good</em> on him and <em class="calibre7">prove</em> that Milo's actions were in the
      right.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But none of that would change the fact that Milo <em class="calibre7">liked</em>
      being powerful. He <em class="calibre7">loved</em> being able to magically suplex
      bad guys. The thrill he got when he'd worked out the salt trick,
      allowing him to craft magic items at a small fraction of their
      usual cost, had nothing to do with being able to use his new
      equipment to defend the innocent from He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Newhaven disappeared behind a steep hill.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo needed to change the subject. Ethical conundrums would get
      him nowhere.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How come I'm only a kid?" Milo asked, eventually.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry?" Relkin blinked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The starting age for Wizards is seventeen to twenty-seven,"
      Milo said. "But I was level three by the time I was eleven."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know anything about that," Relkin said woodenly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, come on. You and I both know you do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine," Relkin relented. "It's basic age optimization. Look,
      we're both human, right? The bonus feat is a solid choice that
      tends to outweigh the ability modifiers of the other races. But it
      comes with a drawback: the simple fact of the matter is we don't
      live for very long. Not compared to elves and dwarves, anyway.
      There are ways to extend our lifespan, but they're generally
      available only at higher levels and are deeply suboptimal. I wanted
      to put that off for as long as possible, so I—er, that is,
      <em class="calibre7">you</em>—started out with a level in Commoner, which has no
      starting age, and retrained out at first opportunity. A longer
      adventuring career means more chances to gain experience and magic
      items."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You <em class="calibre7">must</em> know I have no intention of dying of old
      age," Milo said. "That's just not in the cards for us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One should always have plans in place for the event of
      failure," Relkin said wryly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo stared out over the burnt wheat fields. He could just
      barely make out the pink-white walls of Myra, City of Light! City
      of <em class="calibre7">Magic</em>! in the distance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're taking her down," he said. "Boccob's task
      regardless."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Deal," Relkin said. She stuck a hand out of her burgundy cloak.
      "And that's a promise."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo grasped her hand and looked her in the eye.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She could Bluff circles around Milo's Sense Motive, and Bards
      were almost required to be Chaotic, but nevertheless he believed
      her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He shook her hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom Riddle hovered over the London cityscape, admiring the
      skyline.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well. <em class="calibre7">Admiring</em> wasn't quite the right word. Perhaps...
      <em class="calibre7">analyzing</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So much had changed since he'd killed Myrtle. The last time he'd
      visited London, it was a smoking ruin. How he had marvelled at the
      capability and the sheer, stunning <em class="calibre7">willingness</em> of Muggles
      to kill each other. He had only ever paid scant attention to their
      news, but he had been so certain that England would soon fall to
      the Germans. Not that it would make any difference, in the end.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Their so-called Great War, of course, only lent further evidence
      for the mastery of wizards over Muggles. They killed millions of
      each other, and over what? Minor differences of race and creed?
      Material resources and wealth? Wizards had no care for either.
      National pride and ethnicity were immaterial concerns compared to
      the very real, very <em class="calibre7">powerful</em> difference between the
      magical and the non-magical. Wizards and witches had the power. It
      was their <em class="calibre7">destiny</em> to rule. Any idiot could see that. And
      as for fighting over resources? The idea was laughable! Who needed
      pig iron and rubber when you could transfigure a house out of thin
      air in an afternoon? Hunger, disease, poverty, scarcity—even
      mortality itself. Magic could solve any problem. It could solve
      <em class="calibre7">every</em> problem. It was being squandered, used only in
      secret.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The world was tearing itself apart, <em class="calibre7">begging</em> to be drawn
      into the light. What was the loss of a few lives along the way?
      They would thank him, in the end.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For he was Lord Voldemort, and he had conquered death.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom Riddle flew away from the city, his captive tied securely
      across the back of his <em class="calibre7">Nimbus Two Thousand and One</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All he had to do now was make sure death <em class="calibre7">stayed</em>
      conquered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The walls were of the fantastical scale that you only really get
      when the person designing them earned their position by virtue of
      heredity, rather than by holding a degree in Architecture, Military
      Science, History, or Common Sense.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The towering walls were shining, pinkish-white marble, dotted
      with frequent guard towers and roofed with green tiles. Great
      expense had gone into magically treating the walls to keep soot and
      mildew off, with the unexpected side-effect of causing migraines in
      those who left their <em class="calibre7">Detect Magic</em> switched on. The overall
      effect was quite intimidating: "Watch yourself," the walls said.
      "We're so powerful, we don't even understand why we'd <em class="calibre7">need</em>
      walls for non-decorative purposes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Normally, there was a long wait to enter through the gates as
      the guards checked visitors for undesirables (read: kobolds) and
      their wagons for contraband (also, primarily, kobolds).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Today, there were no other travellers on the long, broad
      causeway into the city, though there were twice as many guards
      stationed at the entrance as was the norm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Halt," one of them said, holding out her mailed hand. "No
      admittance."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You take the six on the right, and I'll take the six on the
      left?" Gerard whispered loudly to Zook.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Garl Glittergold teaches of patience and restraint," Zook said
      sagaciously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The one second from the right is a hobgoblin," Gerard said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, then bugger restraint. <em class="calibre7">Divine Mi</em>—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait," Relkin said sharply. "I'll talk our way in." Relkin
      advanced up to the guards. "<em class="calibre7">Yo</em>," she said, pointing a
      thumb over her shoulder. "<em class="calibre7">Am-scray</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All twelve guards lowered their halberds at her in one smooth
      motion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're under some sort of mental control," she said, ignoring
      them entirely. "My Diplomacy check result was pushing low
      orbit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"May I try?" Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Relkin shrugged, and stepped back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo advanced to the guards, keenly aware that he had less hit
      points than a camel and their pole-arms looked <em class="calibre7">very</em>
      pointy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aunt Regina!" Milo exclaimed, conveniently remembering her
      existence. "So good to see you! It must have been, what, three
      years? So long that you didn't recognize me!" She lowered her
      halberd uncertainly, blinking as if there was sand in her eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Milo?" she said. "What... what am I doing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uncle Reginald!" Milo said, moving to the next guard in line.
      "Why, you taught me my first cantrip! And Second Cousin Reggie!
      Remember all those long nights in the woods hunting, er, huntable
      animals? And, why, if it isn't Adopted Cousin Regan! What
      unspecified good times we had!" Pretty soon, they all had their
      weapons lowered, and were milling about in confusion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What did you <em class="calibre7">do</em>?" Relkin asked in a hushed voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I remembered each and every one of them as a treasured friend
      or relative from my backstory," Milo said quietly. "One who would
      <em class="calibre7">never</em>, <em class="calibre7">ever</em> raise a hand against me or impede the
      cause of Justice or the furthering of Good. <em class="calibre7">And</em> who gets
      +2 and a reroll against magical orders against their nature."
      <em class="calibre7">Thank Boccob that Bellatrix wasn't controlling them
      directly</em>, he thought. He was pretty sure that the Imperius
      Curse had no such convenient clause.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can <em class="calibre7">do</em> that?" she choked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Evidently," Milo shrugged. He raised a hand. "All Amastacias
      and Liadons, with me!" he said, and strolled through the mighty,
      adamantine-banded gates into Myra, City of Light! City of
      <em class="calibre7">Magic</em>!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
