<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 59: SD 6: City of Magic, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s22" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 6: City of Magic</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Milo was, barring one egregious error in ability score
      allocation, a naturally pragmatic person. So much so, in fact, that
      he was sometimes said to be almost robotic. Function over form,
      crunch over fluff, <em class="calibre7">Grease</em> over <em class="calibre7">Burning Hands</em>. He
      liked things efficient and cheap, and didn't much care about how
      they looked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But even he had his breath taken by the City of Light. The City
      was laid out on a grid with evenly spaced, wide boulevards cutting
      through on the diagonal. This tended to wreak havoc on traffic
      systems and created complicated six-way intersections, but it had
      the (deliberate) effect of creating very striking sightlines clear
      through the city. Sweeping monuments, palaces, and key civic
      buildings were located at the intersections of these diagonal
      roads, and could be seen unimpeded, rising up above the city, every
      time they were crossed. On a mighty hill located in the middle of
      the urban centre was the domed Palace of the Azel Empire, where
      grand viziers had ruled with an iron goatee for centuries.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The only thing more expansive in the City of Light than its
      roads were the storm sewers, which housed, at latest estimates, the
      greatest population of kobolds in the known world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The City had changed since Milo had visited last. Gone were the
      brightly-clothed guards endlessly touting the City's tagline, and
      gone were the great throngs of people scurrying about their
      business from early in the morning to late in the night. Signs had
      been posted on shop windows reading CLOSED—BY ORDER and CURFEW IN
      EFFECT: FINAL WARNING.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As he walked down the City's streets, he saw no-one, save,
      perhaps for the occasional furtive shadow in back alleys, where the
      <em class="calibre7">Continual Flames</em> that gave the city its name did not quite
      reach.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The party had split up. The others were gathering supplies and
      information. Normally, splitting the party is considered a cardinal
      sin, but Milo wasn't certain it really applied in this case. After
      all, hadn't the party been split since Bellatrix took Wellby?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo had a special job to do. He'd dragged Relkin along with
      him, though he still wasn't completely certain that the Bard
      wouldn't mess everything up. On the other hand, Milo would probably
      do that anyway. This was <em class="calibre7">not</em> a task he was well-suited
      for.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Navigating his way through the familiar streets, he eventually
      found the house he was looking for. It was a little place on a side
      street in a comfortable, but not exactly wealthy, part of town.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you sure about this?" Relkin asked. She had stopped several
      paces back, and was sweating a little. "It's not too late to
      reconsider. We could get backup. Zook—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Has no business here," Milo said. "We do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did I tell you that I once killed a Hill Giant with only a
      donkey? Yes? Good. Then believe me when I say that I am a very
      versatile and resourceful person, and even I have <em class="calibre7">no idea</em>
      how we're going to go in there and do this. I'm not equipped for
      it. This is out of my league, and it's sure as Hell out of
      yours."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I learned a thing or two while I was gone," Milo said. "Trust
      me. But however it goes, it's something we <em class="calibre7">have</em> to do.
      It's our responsibility."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yours, maybe," Relkin grumbled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And yours. You and I both know it. You couldn't resist, could
      you? It would give you first dibs on my loot on the off-chance you
      recovered my body. Coming up with new names was never your strong
      suit. And—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It gave me roleplaying XP for, essentially, munchkining. Yes, I
      know. Fine. Let's just get this over with, shall we?" Relkin
      fingered the hilt of her sword nervously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo reached his hand up to the door. He swallowed
      anxiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He knocked gently, three times.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The smell of fresh-baked bread wafted out through the doorway as
      it opened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes? Hello?" a woman asked. She had short, dark brown hair,
      streaked with grey, and lightly dusted with flour. She wore a
      similarly flour-ed white apron reading "MATERIAL PLANE'S GREATEST
      CHEF." An aging, tiny gray cat lounged on her shoulders, lazily
      watching them with too-intelligent eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The woman gasped when she saw them. The cat, however, yawned and
      went back to sleep.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo tried to speak, but his throat was suddenly dry. As he
      tried to clear it, she threw her arms around him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hi, Mom," said Relkin Amastacia-Liadon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pull up your sleeve," Riddle commanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Y-yes, my lord," Avery stammered, leaning aside his cane and
      complying.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle couldn't believe the idiot had been foolish enough to get
      shot by a <em class="calibre7">Muggle</em>. Of all the ridiculous ways to be
      injured, being hit by a fast-moving piece of metal crudely launched
      by a chemical reaction had to be among the most unwizardly. And
      undignified, for that matter. Not to mention those who'd actually
      <em class="calibre7">died</em> in that idiotic fiasco...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Dark Mark was clearly visible on Avery's left forearm, like
      an angry, red tattoo.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle grabbed him by the wrist and pressed that idiot boy's
      wand against the Mark. Avery whimpered as the Mark burned black,
      calling his inner circle to join him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go take your place," Riddle commanded. Avery reached for his
      cane, but Riddle kicked it away from him. Anyone stupid enough to
      come out the worse in a fight with a Muggle peace officer deserved
      what they got.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Within minutes, those Death Eaters too cowardly to be in Azkaban
      and too intelligent to ignore his summons stood, rank-and-file, in
      front of him. A stray dog wandered behind them in the dark
      forest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Greetings, friends," Riddle said, giving them his best smile.
      "Today, you're here to finish what you started two years ago." He
      kicked his hooded ritual offering to the ground and held him there
      with his foot. "Form a circle," he barked at his 'family.' "I
      believe you already know how to do the rest."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're back!" Ley exclaimed, putting out a plate of +5
      Chocolate Croissants of Hazelnut. "And not dead!" she added,
      looking at Milo.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You said that already," Relkin said, looking slightly
      embarrassed. "Three times."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo won initiative and went for the croissant with the most
      powdered sugar on top, though he needn't have bothered. Relkin
      stared at them as if she wasn't certain what they were for.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do you know it's really us?" Milo asked. "You should be
      more careful; something's awry in this city."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ley made a gesture that suggested how much she cared about that
      idea. "Pfft. I can tell it's you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A mother can always tell?" Relkin suggested sarcastically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure. And the battery of Silent, Stilled Divinations I hit you
      with the moment I saw you didn't hurt. Now, what brings you back
      home?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lestrange," Milo and Relkin said simultaneously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The psycho up at the palace?" Ley said. "'Bout time someone
      took her down. I'd do it myself, but I'm past all that, now, of
      course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, yeah?" Milo said. "Then how did a high-level Wizard like
      you avoid being snatched up by Bellatrix's 'recruiters'?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine, fine," Ley said with a shrug that rained flour down on
      the table. "So I lead a little resistance movement from
      time-to-time. But who doesn't, these days?" She poured three cups
      of steaming tea. "So, you're here for help?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not exactly," Milo said. "I..." he glanced at Relkin. "We
      haven't been home in a while. A long while." Not since their
      backstories. "And I in particular might not get a chance to see you
      again for a long time." <em class="calibre7">Maybe ever</em>. "So I just thought, I
      don't know..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's all right," Ley said. "You don't need a reason to visit
      your old mother. And if you did, well, I charge less than an inn.
      So there's that." Ley gave Milo a Look that made him feel like she
      was using <em class="calibre7">Detect Thoughts</em> on him. Not that she really
      would, of course. "Was there something else?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shrugged uncomfortably. Then he looked at Relkin. "Hey,
      Relkin. Try one of these croissants."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Relkin shook her head. "I'm sure they're... nice, but I
      primarily derive sustenance from my bag of Everlasting—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just eat one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine, fine." Relkin eyed the pastry suspiciously, then took a
      cautious nibble. Her eyes went wide and unfocused for a few
      seconds. Then she ate the rest of it in one or two titan-sized
      bites.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few seconds later, she fainted on the table.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sensory overload," Milo explained to Ley, who looked surprised.
      "Nothing to worry about." The same thing had happened to him a
      couple of years ago when he'd first had Every-Flavoured Beans.
      "She'll be up and about in a few minutes. Longer if she got one of
      the dark chocolate ones."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ley coughed. "So, now that you've so cleverly got me alone..."
      she looked at him in the eye with one of those mind-reading
      parental Looks. "Oh," she said. "Is this about, you know... your
      run-in with the mortal coil? That gnome friend of yours sent us a
      <em class="calibre7">Sending</em> about it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo nodded mutely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's okay," she said. "It's okay. Dying can be scary. You're
      allowed to be scared."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But it was <em class="calibre7">so</em> scary," Milo said, feeling, perhaps for
      the first time, his actual age. He was just a kid. He wanted to
      elaborate further, but for some reason his throat was burning. Had
      his pastry been poisoned, again? Who had let house elves into the
      city?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No-one's around," Ley said, putting a hand on his. "Relkin's
      out cold, and your father and the others are out of town until this
      whole 'Bellatrix' thing blows over. You don't have anything to
      prove."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The room got a little blurry for some reason. Definitely poison.
      "I thought I would be gone forever," he said in a voice that was
      barely audible, even to him. How could his throat be so dry if his
      eyes were so wet? "I thought, maybe, this was it. It's over. I'd be
      trapped in the Outlands. That all I was, and would ever be, was a
      collection of stats and abilities indistinguishable from the next.
      That I'd never managed to be anything… <em class="calibre7">more</em> than my
      spells, my feats, my items, my skills. All of which failed me in
      the end, regardless. I was useless. <em class="calibre7">Worse</em> than useless; I
      was a tool wielded by a monster. There were people who counted on
      me, people who… who are probably dead, now." That last part came
      out in a barely audible whisper.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's okay, honey. It's okay."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't want to die, Mom."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know, sweetie. But, just in case, your father and I
      <em class="calibre7">did</em> set aside a not insignificant amount of diamond dust
      in case of that very event."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo sniffed. "Thanks, Mom." He moved to wipe his nose on his
      sleeve, but Ley gave him another Look, this one of Motherly
      Disapproval. She had a wide array of Looks.
      "<em class="calibre7">Prestidigitation</em>," he cast, feeling sheepish. His face
      and clothes were instantly surgery-room clean.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two of them sat together in silence for a while, drinking
      tea. But it was one of those rare non-awkward silences that you
      really only get with family and friends that are as good as
      family.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Relkin groaned on her chair next to him. "What happened?" she
      asked. "I feel like someone hit me with a <em class="calibre7">Mind Fog</em>." She
      rubbed her forehead and groaned again. "And I got a natural
      one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You just used your taste buds for the first time since your
      backstory," Milo said, clearing his throat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was... intense," Relkin admitted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Backstory? " Ley cocked an eyebrow and stared at her. "Are you
      <em class="calibre7">both</em> PCs now?" she asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Erm," Milo said. "Sort of. Maybe. Yeah."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She got a scary-looking glint in her eye.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Two PCs in the family?" She said with maybe a little too much
      excitement. "Oh, those old codgers at the Mage's Guild are going to
      choke on this," Ley rubbed her fingers together wickedly. "Well,
      they will when they stop being possessed, anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Speaking of," Relkin said. "I think I had an idea. We might be
      able to use your help after all..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How will we know if it's working?" Gerard whispered. "Is there
      a signal?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We arcanists have our ways," Milo said airily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oooh, a communications spell?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, yes. Broadly speaking."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Relkin rolled her eyes. "When things go boom, we go zoom," she
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you really certain this trick is going to work?" Zook
      asked. "It doesn't seem terribly... reliable."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Positive," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Couldn't we just... test it out? Just to be safe?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Absolutely not," Milo said firmly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But... why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It'll only work once. After that, I'd bet my spellbook the gods
      won't allow it again. Also, this spellbook is pretty gross anyway.
      Ink runs right off human skin. Who knew."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The ground shook, and the sky started flashing technicolour.
      Bolts of lightning, balls of fire, and bursts of glittering dust
      flew out of a tall, twisty tower visible on the City's skyline that
      was the home of the Mage's Guild. <em class="calibre7">Thanks, Mom</em>. A guerilla
      strike on a building full of angry, imprisoned or
      <em class="calibre7">Dominated</em> spellcasters was a Hell of a distraction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's our signal," Milo said. "Shields up, people." Milo
      lifted the heavy tower shield with both hands awkwardly. He didn't
      like shields, and he <em class="calibre7">especially</em> didn't like tower shields.
      They got in the way of the delicate gestures and concentration
      needed to cast his spells. But, just this once, he needed one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His companions, one by one did the same. And then they
      disappeared from vision.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Remember that they can still hear you," Milo whispered. "So try
      to move around when there's no-one near or when there's already
      loud noise."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't like all this sneaking about," Gerard said. "It's Rogue
      business."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, our Rogue is a touch indisposed at the moment," Milo
      said. "So the dirty work falls to us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The gates to the palace slammed open, and soldiers poured out,
      running right past them towards the Mage's Guild.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo licked his lips and hoped that his plan would work.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the soldiers passed him, some of them—mostly officers and
      sergeants, with a fair number of enlisted as well—slowed, and
      looked around, blinking in confusion. Some soldiers ran right into
      them and fell, causing pileups, while others stopped to see what
      was going on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some of the confused soldiers started bellowing orders to their
      men to stop what they were doing, while others started arguing
      amongst themselves. Most were milling around aimlessly, and a small
      few were staring into space, sobbing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not one of them noticed that they had run over a line of
      <em class="calibre7">Magic Circles against Evil</em>, but all of them realized they
      were no longer under the effects of magical compulsion, either from
      the Imperius Curse or from an Enchantment spell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I just want to mention that that was all of my third-level
      spells," Zook whispered. "So if anyone has some, say, serious
      wounds that need, for example, curing, you're out of luck."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We understand," Relkin said. "I can pick up the slack in the
      healing department if it comes to that. Let's move."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the army fought amongst themselves, the party snuck past
      them, unseen, through the open gates of the palace.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't believe this is really working," Zook whispered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The theory was perfectly sound," Milo said, though he wasn't,
      in truth, as certain as he was pretending. The theory was, of
      course, definitely sound. In fact, until he'd seen it working right
      in front of him, it had been nothing <em class="calibre7">but</em> sound.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The rules, however were indisputable. Fact one: tower shields
      could grant you cover, the same way that hiding behind a wall
      could. Fact two: if you have cover, so does all of your gear,
      including the tower shield granting you cover. Fact three: total
      cover blocked line-of-sight <em class="calibre7">and</em> line-of-effect.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All of this together meant that you could hide behind a tower
      shield and you—<em class="calibre7">and the shield you were hiding behind</em>—could
      become both invisible (no line-of-sight) and untargetable by
      attacks and many forms of magic (no line-of-effect).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But it was the kind of trick that would only work once before
      someone upstairs cottoned on and changed the very nature of the
      universe. But until then...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo grinned, and he and his invisible comrades began to
      infiltrate the most heavily-secured building in the empire.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
