<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 60: SD 7: Magnum Opus, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s23" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 7: Magnum Opus</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Corporal Regina checked range and angle for the fourth time, and
      once again found it to be perfect. It was as if the creepy,
      self-winding catapult <em class="calibre7">wanted</em> to hit its target.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop fiddling with it," her brother, Reginald, said. "That kid
      in the red cloak said all we have to do is pull this lever."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean your niece, Relkin?" Regina said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Reginald blinked. "My niece."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Regina supposed she was her niece, too. Obviously. She'd always
      been her niece. That's how nieces worked. She could even remember
      holding her as a baby. She was family. You're supposed to do
      anything for family, right? That's what people said. She didn't
      think most people usually meant <em class="calibre7">treason</em>, though, when they
      said it. Did it count as treason if the emperor himself was being
      mind-controlled? This <em class="calibre7">was</em> right, wasn't it?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, family or no, mentally dominating people was wrong. It was
      possible—even likely—that there would have been a mutiny once the
      extent of the domination over the army was uncovered. Regina knew
      that she, at least, had been mad as Hell when that boy—who was her
      favourite nephew, she reminded herself—had broken the spell. Taking
      someone's life and re-writing it to your own will was black as
      night. And now they were taking the fight to the one who had done
      that to her. That <em class="calibre7">had</em> to be right.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Regina checked the catapult again, feeling a little uneasy. The
      firing angle was still perfect.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Those two kids were family. They'd always been family.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The question that nagged at the corner of her mind, though, was,
      well...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They were always family. They'd always <em class="calibre7">been</em> family.
      Always. But had they always been family yesterday?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo walked into the Palace's grand entrance chamber. Pinkish
      marble sheathed the walls, and a small, tasteful fountain cascaded
      water on either side of the room. The thick red carpet was covered
      in muddy bootprints from the soldiers who had been stationed
      here.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Everyone still here?" Milo whispered. The rest of his party
      wasn't simply invisible (as that could be countered with magic),
      they were outright <em class="calibre7">un-see-able</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were a series of affirmatives.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo felt as if he should give an inspirational speech.
      Something that would thank his friends for risking their lives to
      help him, that would get their blood pumping, and that would drive
      them to new heights. Something suitable to the momentousness of the
      occasion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You all know what to do," Milo said. Screw it. Inspiring people
      was un-wizardly. "Let's get to it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is the package prepared?" Bellatrix asked, pacing impatiently,
      her silent bodyguard lurking in the corner.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Soon, mistress," Lkoturo the Vizier said. Even the Imperius
      Curse couldn't quite banish the oil from his voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's <em class="calibre7">taking</em> so long?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There is an affray at the Mage's Guild, mistress" Lkoturo said.
      "Unenlightened Wizards—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wizards!" Bellatrix snapped. "They are <em class="calibre7">not</em>
      wizards!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course, mistress. Unenlightened... users of magic launched a
      raid in an attempt to free their comrades. Further, they deployed
      some sort of... trap against our army. It may take some time to
      clear up the mess."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Army</em>," Bellatrix mocked. "Muggles with sharpened
      sticks. I care not one way or the other."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course, mistress. But may I remind you that, for the
      pacification of the lands surrounding Myra, City of Light! City of
      <em class="calibre7">Magic</em>! we need—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For now," Bellatrix cut in. <em class="calibre7">Once the package is prepared,
      this strange mockery of a world can burn for all I care</em>. "And
      I thought I ordered you to stop <em class="calibre7">saying</em> that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course, mistress."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You may leave me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course, mistress." Lkoturo bowed deeply and walked out,
      closing the great spell-wrought wooden doors behind him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Most other seats of government don't have prison cells in the
      basement, excluding, of course, the conference rooms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Despite ready access to <em class="calibre7">Continual Flame</em>-based lighting,
      the prison was dark, smoky, and poorly lit, because some
      conventions are more powerful than mere practicality.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Unconscious prison guards lay scattered about the room, of whom
      roughly half were suffering from severe injuries.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Cure Minor Wounds</em>," Zook murmured over one of them.
      With a gasp, the guard's eyes shot open, and he reached for a
      weapon. "Gerard?" Zook gestured.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gerard, holding a broken table leg, effortlessly thwacked the
      guard over the back of the head, knocking him back unconscious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Must you?" Relkin asked impatiently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"These guards are innocent," Zook said. He looked down at the
      guard Gerard had just knocked out, who had RSIST AREST tattooed on
      his knuckles, and a black eye patch with a skull on it. "Well,
      given the benefit of the doubt, they <em class="calibre7">could</em> be innocent. We
      don't know. So we need to make sure they're unconscious from
      nonlethal damage. Otherwise, they'll just bleed out when we
      leave."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Relkin sighed, but left the issue alone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Surprisingly, considering the new regime, the cells were largely
      empty. Milo had expected more, well, starving political prisoners
      and the like. Maybe a couple of loyalist guardsmen or knights
      willing to help their cause if you put a weapon in their hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Though, he supposed, it actually made sense for the place to be
      empty. Anyone like that would simply have been brainwashed by
      Bellatrix or one of her cronies before being sent back out into the
      streets to act as a double agent. And besides, most of the magical
      prisoners were being kept up at the Mage's Guild, and since when
      had a Death Eater ever paid attention to the goings-on of
      Muggles?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was, however, one prisoner: an aging man in filthy tatters
      that were once fine robes. Regal, even.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old man stared up at them with blank eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo recognized him immediately. He'd seen his face every time
      he'd sat down at an inn, bought new equipment, or looted a treasure
      chest in a fifteen-foot room after slaying the orc defending
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your Majesty!" Milo hissed. "We're here to rescue you!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Emperor continued to stare at him blankly from the other
      side of the bars. <em class="calibre7">Right</em>, Milo realized. <em class="calibre7">He's probably
      under a whole boatload of mental compulsions</em>. There was no way
      to fix that without first getting into the cell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oy, skill monkey! I've got a job for you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Relkin perked up. "Oh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo gestured at the lock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Relkin stepped up and took a look at the oversized, rusty lock.
      Then she produced a series of fine, complicated-looking tools and
      probes, and went to work. In a few seconds, the door swung
      open.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Protection from Good</em>," Milo muttered, and tapped the
      Emperor on the forehead. He felt weird casting the inverse of his
      usual spell, but this was all he'd found in Thamior's creepy
      spellbook. For these purposes, the results should be exactly the
      same.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old man gasped and looked around as if he'd never seen,
      well, <em class="calibre7">anything</em> before.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're free," Milo said. "But we need your help. Someone has to
      take over after we—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is your tube," the old man said in a serious tone.
      "<em class="calibre7">This</em> is your tube in ruins."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er. What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Any treads?" the man said, dropping to a whisper, and clutching
      Milo's hands desperately. "Madness and ages past; that's what
      really matters. Yea! Fie! Treads! Treads!" The old man suddenly
      stopped rambling and stood up straight, adopting a beatific pose.
      "Neither a borrower nor a treasure be," he said sagely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Relkin frowned. "<em class="calibre7">Detect Magic</em>," she cast. "He's clean,"
      she said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, what... what's wrong with him?" Milo asked. "I heard him
      give a speech a few years back; he wasn't like this then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No man," the emperor said pompously, "is fit to coagulate
      another that cannot coagulate himself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think he's been under mental compulsion his whole life," she
      said. "I don't think he's... all there. I'm not certain it's
      something magic can fix."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This posed a problem. It had all seemed so simple on paper:
      break in, free the rightful monarch, take out Bellatrix, everyone
      goes home happy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The sample and the plug," the old man rambled, "are alike
      admired for a saturated tank—<em class="calibre7">and</em> for their transparent
      pits."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But the emperor was clearly unfit to rule. Milo didn't want to
      leave the City to fend for itself after dealing with Lestrange, but
      what could he do...?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've got an idea," Milo said grimly. "But I think some of you
      may not like it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo told them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They didn't like it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The hallway was empty.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Red plush carpet covered the floor, and the walls were expensive
      hardwood. Every here and there was an alcove or sconce with a
      painting, urn, or other tasteful, and, more importantly,
      <em class="calibre7">expensive</em> piece of art. It was, basically, your typical
      palatial hallway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lkoturo the Grand Vizier strolled down the hallway. He looked
      confident, in control, smug, and hardly mind-controlled at all. His
      long, waxed goatee looked particularly oily today.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He paused, tilting his head, as if he heard something that he
      couldn't quite make out. After a few moments, he gave the minutest
      of shrugs and continued walking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He didn't realize he wasn't alone until after Milo had tapped
      him on the back with a <em class="calibre7">Protection from Good</em> and dropped
      his tower shield.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lkoturo spun around, eyes sharp on Milo.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You!" he hissed. "You're supposed to be dead!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was Milo's turn to be surprised. "You know who I am?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're a PC! What do you take me for? Of course I know who you
      are! Now, why did you free me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We want to help you," Milo said. "Actually, let me rephrase
      that. We're grudgingly willing to help you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To what end? And in exchange for what? And why shouldn't I rid
      myself of your meddling presence now, while I have you alone and
      out-levelled?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo coughed delicately, and there were three thuds as tower
      shields hit the floor, revealing Zook, Gerard, and Relkin with
      mace, greatsword, and longsword held, respectively, in a generally
      menacing manner.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lkoturo paused. "Your case is persuasive," he said finally.
      "Now, what do you want?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're here to take down Lestrange," Milo said. "We want you to
      return the city to a generally status-quo-sort-of situation
      afterward. In the meantime, you stay out of our way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do I know this isn't some sort of trick?" Lkoturo asked.
      "After all, with me in charge, sooner or later we'll likely have it
      out anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True," Milo said. "But you're the sort of villain PCs are there
      to handle. You're capital 'E' Evil, and Bellatrix is lower-case 'e'
      evil, and I think we've all seen what's scarier. And besides, I
      lived in the City under your rule for eleven years. Bandits and
      kobolds were problems, but the people never went hungry and
      oppression was generally kept to a minimum."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I pride myself on my modern outlook," Lkoturo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're this world's problem, and this world can deal with you
      later. Until then, someone has to keep the trains running on time.
      Do we have a deal?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well," Lkoturo said. "But what is a train?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Irrelevant to our conversation. Where is Bellatrix?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In my office. Take the stairs two floors up, first door on the
      left. But you'll never get in; the doors are heavily protected with
      magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo made a dismissive gesture. "Not a problem. Why was she
      rounding up spellcasters?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For her search," Lkoturo said. "She's completely obsessed,
      especially in the last few days. High-level spellcasters possess
      very potent divination and transportation spells, allowing them to
      find and retrieve objects the world over."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Interesting. But what is she looking for?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Philosopher's Stones," Lkoturo said. "She's got dozens of
      them."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
