<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 62: SD 9: The Fourth Mistake, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s25" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 9: The Fourth Mistake</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">"I only joined the Death Eaters in the first place to get a shot
      at Bellatrix."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Magical rituals are fickle things.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I—sometimes—enjoy Muggle jazz music."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They aren't spells. That's the first thing people get wrong.
      Spells are simple and well understood. Use a wand, focus your mind,
      channel your inner magic through the wand, say the words, and
      <em class="calibre7">bam</em>. Magic happens. The more accurately you perform the
      incantation and the gestures, the more efficient your mind and wand
      can channel the magic to get the desired effect. But wands are
      barely two thousand years old—new inventions, in the grand scheme
      of things. They were the product of human ingenuity at its finest,
      creating a simple tool that allows anyone (well, anyone that
      mattered, anyway) to perform simple, reliable magic. The real
      beauty of a wand is how <em class="calibre7">safe</em> it is. Ninety-nine times out
      of a hundred, botching an incantation results in nothing happening
      at all. When something does happen, ninety-nine times in a hundred
      it's harmless magical discharge—sparks, light, noise. Uncommonly,
      there are minor magical side effects, easily remedied. Still, very
      rarely, reckless wand usage can result in severe injury or even
      death. Nevertheless, they are considered safe enough to be given to
      children. But rituals are not like spells.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My family is deeply in debt because of my gambling problem. My
      husband hasn't found out yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rituals are <em class="calibre7">dangerous</em>. One wrong word, one wrong
      ingredient, and you're <em class="calibre7">lucky</em> if all that results is death.
      It's the ones that create life that you have to worry about.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I like to kill insects just for the fun of it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rituals are not invented, either. That is the second thing that
      people get wrong. Spells have inventors, often famous ones, who
      work to tease out the shifting, often nonsensical rules of magic
      and create spells that allow one to repair glasses, to chop onions,
      to turn rats into teacups, to speak to a crowd, or even to kill. It
      was a field of lore that Lucius Malfoy knew little about, but that
      wizards and witches with much more skill and much less ambition
      than he could regularly work with to produce hundreds of new spells
      every day, usable by anyone in the world with the patience and time
      to learn (except for Muggles, of course). But rituals are not
      invented. They are <em class="calibre7">discovered</em>. Chant a little Old Aramaic,
      burn a little sandalwood, sprinkle a powder made from the canine
      teeth of a child murdered by his brother over a bowl containing
      stone from a fallen star under the light of a crescent moon and, in
      three days, it will rain vinegar. (This is true. Try it at home;
      see for yourself).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I still pick my nose."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And <em class="calibre7">nobody knows why</em>. That terrified Lucius. Who out
      there was watching, waiting, to see that someone performed the
      ritual and had the power to follow up with the effects? More
      troublingly, <em class="calibre7">why</em> would they do it? What possible gain
      could this shadowy entity get from powdered teeth and space rocks?
      Or maybe there was no entity, and it was a <em class="calibre7">fundamental property
      of the universe</em> that vinegar would rain in the middle of the
      lunar month because somebody said the right words in a dead
      language? Lucius wasn't sure which was worse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I killed my sister's cat with a steak knife after it vomited on
      my bed. Everybody thinks he ran away."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Almost more frightening was that rituals were, apparently,
      timeless. Worse than the chanting in dead languages was the
      chanting in languages that <em class="calibre7">hadn't yet been created</em>. In the
      early 1600s, Italian explorers discovered an apparently isolated
      tribe living on an island in the south pacific whose magical
      population regularly made use of a rain-causing ritual whose
      incantation, it was discovered in 1976, was in perfect, modern
      Esperanto.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ever since my injury, I've had nightmares of that Muggle girl
      with the metal wand coming back to finish the job."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All of this brought up the uncomfortable question of who it was
      who first figured that out. It can't have been coincidence, or even
      experimentation. <em class="calibre7">Maybe</em> there was <em class="calibre7">one</em> Neo-Assyrian
      dentist with a weird thing for meteorites who stumbled across the
      vinegar ritual. But that such an event would have happened many
      thousands of times in written history defies imagination.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wanted to be a Hufflepuff."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All evidence suggested that wizards and witches across all
      cultures and throughout history and pre-history were, on occasion,
      suddenly inspired to collect a series of essentially random
      articles and chant complete gibberish. Stranger still was how often
      they felt the desire to pass this information along. Even
      supposedly 'secret' rituals still wound up written down and
      preserved through fires, Muggle witch hunts, wars, and natural
      disasters, despite the self-evident fact that the best way to keep
      anything secret was to not write it down in the first place—and, of
      course, kill or Obliviate any witnesses. Rituals, it appeared,
      <em class="calibre7">wanted</em> to be discovered—and, more troubling, wanted to be
      <em class="calibre7">shared</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I haven't loved my wife in years."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All of this is to say that Lucius Malfoy did not generally
      approve of the use of ritual magic. In fact, the one timethat the
      situation had grown desperate enough that he decided to overcome
      his natural suspicion of ritual magic, he'd accidentally set in
      motion a series of events that culminated in the <em class="calibre7">precise
      opposite</em> of his desire. Rather than prevent the Dark Lord's
      return, he'd brought it about.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wanted to be an Auror, but couldn't get my Transfiguration
      Owl."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And now here was the final product of that ritual, preparing to
      perform it again. Lucius wished he could bring himself to believe
      it was mere coincidence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm worried I might be an alcoholic and don't know who to talk
      to about it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And now it was Lucius's turn. The ritual required all
      participants to reveal one secret that they had never spoken aloud
      to anyone before. What he hadn't mentioned, however, was that it
      didn't need to be an <em class="calibre7">important</em> secret.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't have strong feelings either way about American versus
      English spelling."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The only one who hadn't spoken was Riddle, their thirteenth.
      Lucius found himself strangely curious—would he fall into the trap
      of the others, and allow the drama of the situation to colour their
      choice of secrets? Would he follow Lucius's route, and reveal
      something meaningless? Would he choose a secret that, when
      revealed, would provide some sort of gain?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Sssthisss kerasshe ssslan ssssshira</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Clever</em>. By speaking in Parseltongue, Riddle could both
      avoid revealing any information he desired to keep secret, but also
      reminded people that yes, despite his youthful appearance, he
      really was the Dark Lord. Hardly subtle, but subtlety was often
      lost on the other Death Eaters.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle kicked the sacrifice into the middle of the circle. Who
      had Riddle chosen as an equivalent exchange for Bellatrix,
      supposedly the greatest Death Eater who ever lived? Who was, in
      Riddle's mind, greater than anyone else present in the circle? Was
      it McGonagall? Or perhaps a great Auror, like Moody? The alchemist,
      Flamel? Lucius began to worry that, maybe, Riddle decided the best
      way to find a close equal would be to choose Bellatrix's own
      sister, Narcissa Malfoy...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle removed the sheet covering the victim, and Lucius had to
      strangle a laugh as their face was revealed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle's chosen equal for Bellatrix Lestrage, widely considered
      the greatest duelist of her generation, killer of an unknown number
      of wizards, witches, and Muggles alike, famed for torturing Alice
      and Frank Longbottom to the point of insanity and well beyond was
      none other than Gilderoy Lockhart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For a moment, Lucius wished the ritual actually worked the way
      that everyone else believed. It would make his life so much easier.
      As it was, this would only serve to cement Lockhart's reputation.
      <em class="calibre7">How strange the way the world works sometimes</em>...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">A bored rat is an unhappy rat, and it's up to you to provide
      fun and games for your little guy</em>. Hannah looked up from the
      pamphlet she'd gotten from the pet store and watched Mordenkainen.
      She hadn't ever really realized what a <em class="calibre7">big</em> rat he was.
      He'd always seemed so tame and friendly around Milo, but ever since
      his... disappearance... Mordy hadn't been the same.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione had been almost too happy to give him up to Hannah.
      Almost <em class="calibre7">suspiciously</em> happy, actually. She really should
      have thought to ask why the bookish girl's hands were covered in
      bandages...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah sighed. Her parents were not going to like this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A dark, flickering orb slowly grew out of Bellatrix's chest. She
      didn't appear particularly perturbed by it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I though this might happen," Milo muttered. He glanced outside.
      He hadn't been keeping track, but he was willing to bet it was
      within a few seconds of <em class="calibre7">exactly</em> three days since Boccob
      had brought him back. The old Wizard hadn't ever intended for him
      to <em class="calibre7">beat</em> Bellatrix, all he'd wanted was for Milo to be in
      this room at this precise moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's happening?" Relkin asked. "Is that—oh. <em class="calibre7">Oh.</em>"
      Comprehension dawned on her face. She—like Milo—had never seen this
      from the outside, before.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't have a lot of time," Milo said. "Wellby," he said,
      turning to face the Wellby. "I'm sorry you had to spend so long in
      her thrall. I wish we had more time to talk. Look after my sister
      for me, okay? And tell Gerard and Zook I said something
      appropriate."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're talking like you're about to—hey, wait," Wellby's mouth
      dropped. "Your s<em class="calibre7">ister</em>? Since when do <em class="calibre7">you</em> have a
      family?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo turned to Relkin. "Sis..." No, gross. Never again. "Relkin.
      This world is in your hands, now. Level up a little, then go after
      that vizier guy, kay? He's bad news."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know, I know," Relkin said. "He probably has four or five
      high-level, quirky underlings for us to work through, first."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look after Mom," Milo said. The sphere had almost completely
      enveloped Bellatrix, now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look after yourself," Relkin said. "I don't think you can count
      on another <em class="calibre7">deus ex machina</em> like the one Boccob threw at
      you." She sighed, and unbuckled her belt reluctantly. "Take this
      with you," she said. "You'll need it more than me." Milo grabbed
      it. The leather felt familiar—it was almost identical to the Belt
      of Hidden Pouches that he'd once had.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shook his hands out of his sleeves once again, Readying a
      spell. He knew what was coming, this time. The sphere had almost
      completely enveloped Bellatrix, now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo sprinted towards the disappearing witch and dived towards
      her. Just as he was about to make contact, he shouted, "<em class="calibre7">Feather
      Fall</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The world turned dark and cold.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The circle of candles flared into life, burning dozens of times
      brighter than any natural flame could.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gilderoy Lockhart looked around with his eyes wide, a rag shoved
      into his mouth as a gag.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Bellatrix Lestrange</em>," Tom Riddle spoke. Despite the
      light, his face was dark as night, except for his eyes... Lucius
      shivered. The Parseltongue hadn't been necessary; one look at his
      eyes was all that was necessary to prove his identity.
      "<em class="calibre7">Bellatrix Lestrange</em>," Riddle said again. A west wind
      buffeted them, almost knocking Lucius from his feet. The flames,
      however, weren't affected at all. "<em class="calibre7">Bellatrix Lestrange</em>,"
      Riddle said for the third and final time. The air went perfectly
      still, and, between one second and the next, Lockhart vanished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Maybe it won't work</em>, Lucius thought. <em class="calibre7">Last time, we
      specified a great and powerful wizard by name—by</em> name<em class="calibre7">—and
      look what happened</em>. Instead of the great Archmage, the
      enigmatic Ninth of Eight, supposedly the first wizard that ever
      existed, all they got was some half-crazed, semi-human child.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a flash of darkness that left Lucius blinking spots
      out of his eyes, and Bellatrix appeared a few feet above the
      ground, covered, for some reason, in grey dust.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She slammed into the moss as if she'd fallen from a much greater
      height, and there was a gristly snap of bones breaking. She lay on
      the ground, groaning faintly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius almost lost his usually iron control. He felt like
      breaking something. <em class="calibre7">After all that work I'd gone through to get
      rid of the woman, she just comes</em> right back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius closed his eyes and focused on his breathing, calming
      himself down. The damage was done. The important thing now was to
      establish his position as—</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Glitterdust</em>!" Everything went yellow-white. <em class="calibre7">Oh,
      no</em>, Lucius just had time to think before the inevitable
      happened. "<em class="calibre7">Evard's Black Tentacles</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mordenkainen looked up, directly into Hannah's eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Squeak?" he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah blinked. Sure, rats tend to squeak a lot, but...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, they just sort of squeak. They don't really <em class="calibre7">say</em>
      'squeak.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mordy?" She said. "Is that really you in there? You're…
      back?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The rat nodded impatiently "<em class="calibre7">Squeak</em>!" he insisted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah tossed the pamphlet away and opened the latch on the top
      of the cage. Mordy climbed his way up the bars and brachiated,
      monkey-like, across the top. With an acrobatic flourish, he flung
      himself out of the cage and landed on the top.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah was barely watching, though—instead, she was fishing her
      broomstick out from her closet. As an afterthought, she also pulled
      on the spell-enhanced robe Milo had given her. She also pocketed
      her wand, though she knew she wasn't allowed to use it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Coming?" she said, holding a hand out for the rat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo touched the ground gently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a nice change from his usual method of entry to alternate
      planes of existence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Among the writhing mass of glitter-covered, black, rubber
      tentacles generally ruining the day of a not-insignificant number
      of Death Eaters was none other than Tom Riddle, who was attempting
      to hack his way out of the mess with a sword. A tentacle had firmly
      grabbed his wand hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo narrowed his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Return</em>," he muttered. The sky-coloured crystal in the
      sword's pommel flashed briefly, and it appeared in Milo's hand.
      Riddle blinked in surprise, staring at his now-empty hand. Then he
      looked up, and met Milo's eyes. To think, Milo had gotten a
      <em class="calibre7">discount</em> when he'd made the item by making the return
      functionality only work for capital-"W" Wizards.
      <em class="calibre7">Technically</em> the item was weaker by being more limited, but
      in practice, it was strictly an advantage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fourth mistake, pretty boy," Milo said, bashing the sword's
      golden hilt into the Dark Lord's nose with an enormously satisfying
      <em class="calibre7">cer-UNCH</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sure, a spell would be more effective, but when would he get the
      chance to punch He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named in the face again?
      Besides, it was a free attack of opportunity; his turn's real
      action would have to be used getting the heck away from this
      mess.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle touched his nose. His fingers came away red.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"PCs are never beaten in battle. They can <em class="calibre7">always</em> come
      back for another go." Milo sheathed the sword in Relkin's <em class="calibre7">Belt
      of Hidden Pouches</em>. Without his amulet of <em class="calibre7">Mirror Move</em>,
      it was more a liability than an asset. "Now, eat <em class="calibre7">Kelgore's Fire
      B—</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Stop</em>," Riddle commanded, his eyes flashing red.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo blinked. His hand was outstretched, but the spell was gone
      from his mind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle smirked, despite his precarious position and broken nose.
      "I'd been doing magic long before that fool gave me a wand," he
      said. "Now. <em class="calibre7">Draw</em>." Despite himself, Milo found himself
      drawing his sword once more. "Now, <em class="calibre7">Kill Yourse—</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Something huge and heavy slammed into Milo from the side,
      knocking him well clear of the tentacles. An <em class="calibre7">enormous</em>
      black dog pinned him down against the dewy grass.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The dog looked him in the eye for a moment, and the next thing
      Milo knew, he was being carried through the forest by a gaunt,
      skeletal man with long, dark hair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Idiot," the man said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What—who—why—no, let's stick with <em class="calibre7">who</em>. Who
      <em class="calibre7">are</em> you?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hang on," the man said. At first, Milo assumed he meant it as
      in, 'wait and I'll tell you,' but he quickly realized the man was
      speaking literally.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A moment later, Milo was hanging on to the back of the giant
      black dog again, being carried through the forest at speeds that
      were, frankly, <em class="calibre7">irresponsible</em> given the darkness and
      density of trees. As requested, Milo hung on for dear life.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A green bolt slammed into the tree in front of them. Brown and
      red leaves rained over them as the tree died.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo attempted to throw up an <em class="calibre7">Illusory Wall</em> to screen
      them, but the dog's mad sprint threw off his concentration.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd have to be a little less ambitious with his spell choice if
      he wanted to be able to cast with any reliability from the back of
      a sprinting dog, he realized. "<em class="calibre7">Dancing Lights</em>," he
      muttered quietly, firing a spray of vaguely hostile-looking red
      bolts behind him, shouting, "<em class="calibre7">Diddlum's Deadly Death,</em> er,
      <em class="calibre7">Bolts</em>!" With their pursuer presumably cowering in fear
      from his 'attack,' he risked a glance around. A couple of Death
      Eaters—he couldn't distinguish them between their hoods and the
      darkness—were following on broomstick, weaving between trees. Just
      to confuse them, he had his <em class="calibre7">Dancing Lights</em> swoop around
      again from behind and just barely miss the one in front, this time
      green, making a passable imitation of the Killing Curse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The lead Death Eater veered away from her partner, making a rude
      gesture with her hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can't you, like, Apparate or something?" Milo shouted at the
      dog as they ran. The dog didn't reply, which Milo took as a
      negative. Technically Milo could use <em class="calibre7">Dimension Door</em> to
      teleport them away, but its range was pretty limited, and he wasn't
      sure he could pull it off from horse—er, dog-back. Similarly, he
      could summon a <em class="calibre7">Phantom Steed</em> and run significantly faster
      than this dog, though the Steed couldn't carry the both of them and
      he didn't want to leave his rescuer (?) behind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo did some rapid arithmetic in his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Grease</em>!" he cast again, targeting the broomstick under
      the rear Death Eater. The broomstick, now frictionless, continued
      to accelerate, but the Death Eater did not. The results were fairly
      predictable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No, that didn't <em class="calibre7">really</em> help them escape—two more Death
      Eaters flew up to take the place of the one he'd taken out—but it
      <em class="calibre7">did</em> push him just over the experience-point threshold to
      level nine.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In addition to getting him to level four of Rainbow Servant,
      which came with all kinds of goodies, this allowed him to have been
      retroactively researching two spells—<em class="calibre7">and</em> also allowed him
      to more ranks in Concentration. For his spells, he snagged the
      5th-level <em class="calibre7">Wall of Stone</em> and <em class="calibre7">Teleport</em>, both spells
      he decided—in the thirty seconds or so in which he had to consider
      this decision—would be useful in this world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not immediately helpful, of course, because as Wizards have to
      rest for eight hours in order to prepare any spell slots of their
      level.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well. A lesser Wizard would, anyway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As this was his ninth level, he was able to choose a feat—in
      this case, Versatile Spellcaster. He hadn't been planning on taking
      this one, but he couldn't see any other way out of the current
      situation without it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Versatile Spellcaster was never intended for Wizards, but
      Sorcerers. Technically, however, it only requires one to be able to
      "spontaneously cast spells," which Milo could do thanks to his
      ridiculously powerful Spontaneous Divination ability.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Outside of a few unnecessarily complicated, if powerful, tricks
      that Milo wasn't in any position to utilize, Versatile Spellcaster
      was a strictly mediocre feat that allows one to burn two spell
      slots of a lower level in order to cast one of a higher level,
      bypassing the whole "preparation" business.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is going to feel weird," he said to the dog. "But don't
      fight it if you want to live." Without waiting for a response, he
      began casting. This was the most complicated spell he'd used to
      date, and the circumstances were hardly ideal. He'd to bring all of
      his focus to bear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Teleport</em>."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
