<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 63: SD 10: The Dogs of War, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s26" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 10: The Dogs of War</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">The dog under Milo stumbled slightly as the ground he was
      standing on shifted from uneven forest floor to smooth, packed
      dirt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo hopped off, grateful to finally be standing on solid
      ground. He wasn't built for riding animals.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Light</em>," he said, tapping the wall and causing it to
      glow. The previously-dark room lit up instantly, revealing the
      familiar sights of one of his many nigh-identical bolt holes. This
      one, which happened to be closest, was located in... <em class="calibre7">ah, who am
      I kidding</em>, Milo thought. <em class="calibre7">I'm not going to pretend I
      remember the names of this world's political regions</em>. "It
      worked," he said, more than a little surprised. He wondered what,
      exactly, would happen to his newly-learned <em class="calibre7">Teleport</em> spell.
      In order for him to cast it like that, it had to be in his
      spellbook. But he didn't <em class="calibre7">have</em> his spellbook... Riddle did,
      unless it was growing dusty in the Chamber of Secrets. But he
      <em class="calibre7">had</em> learned the spell—and <em class="calibre7">Wall of Stone</em>, for that
      matter. Had the text of the spell simply appeared in the book,
      wherever it was? Or...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo quickly skimmed through Thamior's really, incredibly gross
      spellbook. Nope, not there. Milo shrugged. He was less dependent on
      his spellbook than most Wizards; the important thing was that it
      still existed, wherever it was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On the topic of his old stuff... Milo wondered what had happened
      to his body. It was a weird experience, knowing that the body you
      were in, no matter how identical it looked, was not the body you
      were born in. Was it, too, decaying in the Chamber of Secrets? Or
      had Riddle taken steps to dispose of the evidence? Could coming
      back from the dead in this manner be somehow exploited as some kind
      of macabre corpse-generator? Milo was forbidden from using
      Necromancy, but if he wasn't, what kind of weird undead could he
      create using his own body? How could he get around that
      no-Necromancy restriction? Now there was a thought...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you even listening to me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry?" Milo said, broken out of his reverie.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I said something to the extent of, 'you <em class="calibre7">didn't know that
      would work'</em>?" said the dog, who was now a scruffy man again.
      He looked like a man who had made a few too many Starvation checks
      in his time. At the sight of his teeth, Milo immediately thought of
      Hermione's parents. If anyone needed a dentist, it was this
      man.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I didn't even know the spell until I took out that Death
      Eater back there," Milo said. "And once I did, <em class="calibre7">Teleport</em>
      only has, at best, a 97% success rate." The more familiar Milo was
      with the destination, the more likely it was that he would arrive
      on target.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man-dog-man-person gave Milo a look with which he was fast
      becoming familiar. It was sort of halfway between cautious and
      impressed. Oh, and wondering if their leg was being pulled. It was
      a third of the way between each of cautious and impressed and
      wondering if their leg was pulled. And the look generally reserved
      for crazy people. It was a quarter of the way between—</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, you get the idea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">I see</em>," the man said, sitting down on one of the
      wooden chairs. "Who taught you to Apparate without a license? And
      how come the Ministry lets you do magic underage? Have things
      really changed so much?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shrugged. He wasn't sure how much information he should
      give to this strange man. "I'm out of their jurisdiction."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man nodded slowly, as if that meant something. For all Milo
      knew, maybe it did—he understood, dimly, that there were other
      political bodies outside of the United Kingdom, which had their own
      Ministries of Magic (or the equivalent). For all Milo knew, maybe
      the local Ministry really couldn't tell if foreign children were
      performing magic within its borders, and instead an alarm went off
      halfway around the world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My turn for a question," Milo said. "Who the hells are
      you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a sharp <em class="calibre7">pop</em> as Riddle appeared by the
      uninhabited stretch of coastline, drawing his wand. He aimed it at
      an unremarkable-looking patch of ground and muttered a quick spell
      incantation. Ghostly shovels appeared, and, in a manner of minutes,
      had dug a perfectly rectangular hole, about three feet across, six
      long—and six deep.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle looked down. It wasn't a pretty sight, but even at this
      stage in his career he'd seen worse. Most importantly, it was still
      there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Here, all alone and with no witnesses, he let his icy control
      slip.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Impossible!" he muttered. How could that half-crazed boy have
      managed to fake his own death? And if he had, then whose body was
      rotting in the ground?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No. It was impossible. Riddle had <em class="calibre7">been inside his mind</em>.
      There could be no deception. The death had been real.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So who—or <em class="calibre7">what—</em>had come through the ritual? Could it
      really be the same person? Had the boy really learned to cheat
      death so completely? Or was the ritual somehow flawed? Did it
      simply... <em class="calibre7">create</em> these strange, semi-human children as a
      byproduct of its use?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No. The boy had said something—<em class="calibre7">fourth mistake, pretty
      boy.</em> Hadn't he said, back in the Chamber, that Riddle had made
      four mistakes?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It had to be the same boy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Madness</em>!" Riddle shrieked. Around him, grass
      blackened, thin tendrils of smoke rising from their burnt
      stalks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd come back, as far as Riddle could tell, at full power and
      in a matter of months. <em class="calibre7">How</em>? Even after all the work Riddle
      had gone through, he'd still lost the bulk of his memories and it
      had taken him close to a year living in another's head. What did
      the boy know that he didn't? What was his secret?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle didn't know how, but he knew that he would find out,
      whatever the cost.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But for now, he had more pressing business.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a wave of his wand, the grave filled itself in again, and
      he was gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The stranger remained silent, obviously debating how to answer
      Milo's question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm Sirius Black," he said, finally. He clearly assumed that
      would mean something to Milo, which, of course, it didn't. Last
      Milo had seen, Harry was still carrying the Plot around with him.
      Maybe Sirius was on there, somewhere, but Milo couldn't remember
      for the life of him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm Milo Amastacia-Liadon," Milo said, holding out his hand.
      "Pleased to meet you." It was amazing what a difference a few extra
      ranks in Diplomacy could mean, even purchased cross-class. He'd
      come to learn that there was a lot more <em class="calibre7">dialogue</em> in this
      campaign world than the one he was used to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man stared at Milo's hand, as if he wasn't sure what it was
      for. He blinked, as if remembering, suddenly, and awkwardly shook
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So," Milo said, "what were you doing back there in the
      forest?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Watching," he said. "For some reason, the Death Eaters have
      gotten into their heads again that forests are private. And now
      that... <em class="calibre7">he's</em> back, I decided someone had to keep an eye on
      them. Then my supposedly-dead cousin and you appeared, and I had to
      act or they'd finish you off." He flicked his eyes over Milo again.
      "Whoever you are."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're Bellatrix's <em class="calibre7">cousin</em>?" Milo was surprised. It was
      easy to forget that villains sometimes had family, too. He was
      suddenly keenly aware that he was low on magic, in a small,
      enclosed space with a man who could turn into a giant dog.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Estranged cousin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo resisted the urge to say '<em class="calibre7">Lestranged</em> Cousin,' and
      felt just a little satisfied at his success. If that wasn't
      Character Development, he didn't know what was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, what are you, a werewolf or something?" he asked. Everyone
      was always saying there were werewolves in the Forbidden Forest; it
      seemed semi-plausible that there were some in this one, too. Of
      course, it was patently absurd that there were werewolves living in
      any forests at all, being bog-standard human 27 days a month, but
      that didn't seem to stop them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, thankfully," Sirius said. "I'm an Anima, Gus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo blinked. "A spirit? And I'm Milo."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, an <em class="calibre7">Animagus</em>. I can turn into an animal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh. Like how McGonagall can turn into a cat." Milo was always
      careful around shapeshifting magic. While technically it wasn't
      forbidden, like the Candles of Invocation were, the gods kept their
      eyes on those who abused it. Milo didn't trust himself <em class="calibre7">not</em>
      to—in fact, he wasn't even sure it <em class="calibre7">could</em> be used in a
      non-abusive manner—so he'd stayed well clear of <em class="calibre7">Polymorph</em>
      and its ilk, despite the phenomenal power those spells offered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You've met Minerva?" Sirius glanced at Milo's robes. "You're a
      student," he said. "I don't suppose you've met Harry Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Loads of times," Milo said. "We share a dorm, and fight evil
      together, on occasion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius chuckled. "Why am I not surprised? Tell me, how is
      he—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hands in the air, <em class="calibre7">dirtbag</em>," said a voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo almost jumped out of his skin, complying immediately. Had
      his secret hideouts been compromised? Was it just this one, or all
      of them? Could the Death Eaters somehow track his <em class="calibre7">Teleport</em>
      magic? Or was it Aurors? The DMLE? Had he taken the blame for the
      Basilisk attacks in Hogwarts?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius raised his hands, too, looking grim. They both turned to
      face the door together, and Milo's jaw dropped open.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was Hannah Abbot, wand aimed menacingly at Sirius.
      Mordenkainen was perched on her shoulder, explosive knut-launcher
      (slightly chewed) held at the ready. Milo prayed he didn't use it;
      the blast would easily vaporize everyone in the room, including
      himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hannah?" Milo goggled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't worry," Hannah said. "You can lower your arms." She
      glared at Sirius as he began to do so, too. "Not you," she said in
      a hard voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo blinked. "I don't even know what question to ask," he said.
      "Let's start with 'what' and work our way down through 'why,' take
      a detour on 'how', and end off with another 'what,' maybe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm rescuing you," Hannah said, as if it was obvious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh. Good."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"From him," Hannah gestured at Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo looked at the scruffy shapechanger. "Um. Why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't you know who he is?" Hannah asked. "That's <em class="calibre7">Sirius
      Black</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah..." Milo said. "I feel like that's supposed to mean
      something to me, but it actually doesn't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's a <em class="calibre7">murderer</em>," Hannah said. "He escaped
      Azkaban."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The penny dropped. Bellatrix supposedly died in Azkaban, but
      instead wound up in Milo's world. Her cousin, <em class="calibre7">also</em> a
      killer, <em class="calibre7">also</em> escaped Azkaban.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You got Bellatrix out of Azkaban," Milo said. An idea hit him.
      "<em class="calibre7">Detect Evil,</em>" he cast. A minor ability of his Prestige
      Class, Rainbow Servant, allowed him to cast the spell at-will. It
      was supposed to highlight evil creatures and people with a glow
      strength depending on their level. Of course, the local people and
      creatures didn't seem to <em class="calibre7">have</em> levels, and Milo was
      uncertain that they even had Alignments. Good, Evil, Law, and Chaos
      seemed somewhat more… <em class="calibre7">fluid</em> here.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius stubbornly refused to glow, however. Whether that meant
      that he wasn't evil or if the spell simply wouldn't work here, Milo
      wasn't certain. Unfortunately, he couldn't simply test this by
      casting <em class="calibre7">Detect Good</em> on Hannah, as it wasn't a spell
      Wizards had access to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I absolutely did not," Sirius said firmly. "I don't know how
      Bellatrix escaped, but it's <em class="calibre7">absolutely</em> <em class="calibre7">impossible</em>
      that she did so the same way that I did."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't listen to him," Hannah said. "He killed twelve
      Muggles—that we know of. He might have done more; he never
      confessed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I never killed any Muggles," he said in a quiet voice. Milo was
      keenly aware of the difference between his statement and 'I never
      killed <em class="calibre7">anyone</em>.' Still, who was Milo to judge? When it came
      to stopping bandit raids, Adventurers were not generally known for
      taking prisoners.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Besides, there'd been a war. Milo didn't doubt there had been
      blood on both sides—though which side Sirius was on had yet to be
      established.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then I think we need an explanation," Milo said. "Who are you,
      where did you come from, how did you get out of Azkaban, and why
      are you here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius sighed. "The other prisoners were acting up," he began.
      "They were excited. The guards don't like excitement—or rather,
      they like it a little <em class="calibre7">too</em> much, so that was rare. Unheard
      of, actually. It took me a long time to find out why, and even
      longer to work up the effort to <em class="calibre7">want to</em> find out." Milo
      had no idea what that was supposed to mean, except perhaps that
      this Sirius fellow might not be the most proactive tool in the
      shed. "Of course, they thought I was one of their own, so
      eventually one of them told me. An unexpected upshot of being
      framed, I suppose." He licked his lips. "It was the Dark Mark," he
      said. "It began to burn as brightly as ever; a sign that their
      master was back."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah gasped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hold up," Milo said. "The Dark Mark?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a sign that... <em class="calibre7">he</em>... marks his inner circle
      with." If Sirius was surprised by the tangent, he didn't show
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Like, a literal sign?" Milo asked. He blinked. "Wait.
      High-ranking Death Eaters are <em class="calibre7">visibly</em> marked?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That, of course, struck Milo as sheer idiocy. Tattooing all
      members of your very-illegal, subversive, criminal organization was
      <em class="calibre7">beyond</em> idiotic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There had to be more to it than that, though. Sure, You-Know-Who
      seemed to make several of the more conventional villain missteps,
      but he could also be surprisingly devious. Milo was keenly aware
      that he was one to know, having been thoroughly outsmarted and
      soundly defeated by him last year.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo sat down and thought. He could practically feel the wheels
      in his head spinning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had to look at this from Voldemort's perspective. Why would
      you brand your own followers? It practically guaranteed that, on
      thorough inspection, they would be imprisoned on capture as a
      result. There could be no denial of one's identity as a Death
      Eater. But evidently that hadn't happened—boatloads of Death Eaters
      had walked free, Dark Mark or no.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Was it widely known what the Mark meant?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shrugged. "To the general populace, not normally. But the
      Ministry was well aware of it, as were some of the better-informed
      members of the public. That may have changed since."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo glanced at Hannah.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is the first I've heard of it," she admitted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So the Mark was a sure sign of guilt, and the relevant people
      knew it," Milo said. <em class="calibre7">But what if Voldemort put a Dark Mark on
      an innocent wizard or witch?</em> "Are there any examples of a
      person known to have the Mark walking free?" Otherwise, it would be
      a trivial matter to frame an otherwise innocent victim and then set
      the Aurors on them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Several," Sirius said. "But there's three I think you'll be
      most familiar with. Narcissa and Lucius Malfoy," he said. "And
      Severus Snape."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Despite himself, Milo stared. "You're not serious," he said.
      Snape, a Death Eater?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius frowned. "Actually, I am Siri—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll just head that one off right there," Hannah interrupted.
      "Sirius, Milo meant 'serious,' with an 'e', as in the opposite of
      'silly.' Milo, Sirius mistook you for saying his name."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah," Sirius said. "That happens. Quite a lot, actually. Though
      most of the misunderstandings in my life were caused by my last
      name, not my first."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And just like that, in a rare flash of insight, Milo knew what
      the Dark Mark was <em class="calibre7">really</em> for. Voldemort
      <em class="calibre7">deliberately</em> marked all of his top minions permanently,
      knowing full well that it would identify them as criminals. It made
      sense—from the point of view of someone who was already insane, in
      any case. Voldemort didn't trust his own people; hardly surprising,
      considering some of the Death Eaters Milo had met. Given that
      simple premise, the real use of the Dark Mark became obvious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Dark Mark's use as a tool of communication for Voldemort to
      summon his henchmen was merely an excuse. The <em class="calibre7">real</em> reason
      his minions were permanently marked was to ensure their loyalty. If
      they were captured, and the Mark was discovered, they could
      <em class="calibre7">never</em> fully integrate back into normal society. They were
      branded. Lucius Malfoy was the perfect example—as much as he tried
      to appear as a perfectly legitimate businessman, everybody
      <em class="calibre7">knew</em> in the back of their minds, at least, that he was up
      to no good. No matter how much he liked to claim that he had simply
      been bewitched by Voldemort, Ron had told Milo the very first time
      they'd met what the real truth was. And if eleven-year-old <em class="calibre7">Ron
      Weasley</em> had been able to see through Lucius's disguise, it was
      clear that Voldemort's system had worked. Snape was another perfect
      example—no matter how much Dumbledore insisted that the man had
      changed, nobody except for the old wizard really trusted him. No
      wonder the man's hygiene was so poor; there wasn't really any
      point, anymore, in looking respectable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo blinked. Where had <em class="calibre7">that</em> come from? He was certain
      he was correct, though the logic was foreign to him. Not a single
      part of that train of thought relied on knowledge of story
      conventions or even previous adventuring experience.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What happened then?" Milo asked. "After you learned that their
      Dark Marks had become visible." That had probably been how
      Bellatrix learned that she was about to be summoned back, Milo
      realized. Her own Dark Mark had begun to burn, just like the
      prisoners in Azkaban.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Azkaban guards, they…" Sirius trickled off, as if unable—or
      unwilling—to bring himself to remember.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…they steal your happy thoughts?" Hannah suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded mutely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shot Hannah a glance. Was this just another one of those
      things that everyone here knew, that he had somehow missed? But
      he'd found it practically impossible to get anyone to talk about
      Azkaban, and the books outside of the Hogwarts restricted section
      skirted around the topic uncomfortably. It wasn't as if it was
      secret, so much as if the authors would rather that they themselves
      didn't know, and wouldn't plague the reader with the knowledge as
      well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo was aware that wanded wizards were able to read thoughts,
      and even alter memories (<em class="calibre7">there</em> was a thought to Milo awake
      at night; he'd have to make a new Amulet of Protection from Evil as
      soon as physically possible). But deliberately filtering for
      <em class="calibre7">happy</em> memories to remove? That just seemed…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, if the prisoners weren't crazy going in, they'd sure be
      crazy coming out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Locate Object: Sirius's Wand</em>," Milo cast under his
      breath, disguising it as a cough. The spell didn't turn up
      anything, suggesting at least that Sirius couldn't use magic on
      them if he turned violent (possibly explaining his inability to
      Apparate earlier, though Milo remained uncertain whether or not
      Apparition required a wand). Though, of course, there was still the
      matter of his ability to transform into a giant, fanged dog.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shook himself, a curiously canine act, and the haunted
      look disappeared from his eyes. "But I knew that, if he ever came
      back, he'd go for Harry immediately. That wasn't a happy thought,
      so they left me with it." He swallowed again. Wordlessly, Milo
      handed him an Everfull Mug (Relkin kept hers in the same pocket
      that Milo had kept his). Sirius took it and drank gratefully. "I
      latched onto that thought, and I knew I had to get out. I might be
      the only one who knew that he was back; the only one that could
      warn Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But how did you actually <em class="calibre7">do</em> it?" Milo asked. Again, he
      didn't know what sorts of defences Azkaban might have, but it was
      enough to keep the most dangerous wizards and witches locked up in
      there for decades. Yesterday, Milo would have said that that would
      be an easy enough task—just take away their wands and put up
      similar defensive spells to Hogwarts', keeping would-be rescuers
      from Apparating in. But now… Riddle had almost killed him
      <em class="calibre7">without</em> a wand. It seemed like no matter how much he read
      about magic in this world, there was always a new rule or power to
      be learned in another book.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It took me six weeks to come up with a plan, and six more to
      remember it when the guards took the idea away from me. I had to
      write it in my own blood, because the thought of escape was a happy
      one, and could never stay in my mind. But the core of it, the
      driving force that kept me going… it was anything but. That
      <em class="calibre7">he</em> had returned, and would finish what he'd started, so
      many years ago.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It took me months to remember how to use my powers and work up
      the will to do so. For weeks at a time, I forgot that's what I was
      even doing. But then, one day when the guards opened the cell door
      to give me food, I slipped past them as a dog. They don't see the
      world the way we do, and a dog's emotions were too simple for them
      to understand. They were confused. Blind. From there, I swam to
      shore, and I've been following <em class="calibre7">him</em> ever since. I can't… I
      don't remember where Harry lives. They took that, too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, Milo wasn't about to tell him. But something that Sirius
      said rang alarm bells in his mind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They can't <em class="calibre7">see</em>? Who the hells is <em class="calibre7">guarding</em>
      this place?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shivered slightly, but didn't say anything. Milo glanced
      at Hannah, whose face was pale.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dementors," she whispered reluctantly, as if it were a vile
      curse word.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hm. Well, clearly they had the local wizards and witches
      terrified, but Milo wasn't unduly worried. If their main power was
      draining happy thoughts, they probably wouldn't affect him, much in
      the same way that Riddle's Cruciatus curse hadn't really affected
      him. It would suck, probably, but he doubted it would really
      inhibit him in combat. For all he knew, they wouldn't even be able
      to <em class="calibre7">see</em> him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you mind waiting here a moment?" Milo asked Sirius. "I need
      to confer with my confederate, here. Mordy can keep an eye on
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius eyed Milo's rat suspiciously, paying close attention to
      its paws for some reason, but nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo and Hannah walked to the cave entrance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once they were out of view, Milo pulled her into a hug.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't think I'd ever see you again," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was about to say the same," Hannah said, giving one of those
      laughs that a person gives when they want to pretend something is
      funny, knowing full well that both people know it isn't, but also
      knowing that everyone knows that and won't mention it. People are
      strange, sometimes. "What happened to you? I thought… Oh, this is
      going to sound stupid. I thought you were dead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was," Milo said. "Sirius was right about You-Know-Who being
      back. He, uh… he was, um." Milo briefly debated concealing the fact
      that he'd been possessed for about a year, but decided against it.
      He'd probably done some mighty suspicious things, and for all he
      knew, Hannah and the others thought he'd gone evil. Or maybe that
      he always had been. "He was sort of living in my head ever since we
      fought Quirrell back in First Year. I don't fully understand it,
      but apparently he had a part of himself living in a book, which,
      like an idiot, I straight-up copied into my brain with a
      spell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So… <em class="calibre7">you</em> were Slytherin's Heir?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sort of, yeah. He could take over, sometimes, and I'd just wake
      up after time had passed. He had me block off secret passages in
      Hogwarts with <em class="calibre7">Illusory Wall</em> to give the Basilisk free run
      of the place. At first, he wanted to get Dumbledore fired by
      threatening the students—but notice how he never killed anyone?
      Well… <em class="calibre7">almost</em> never. I think he didn't want Hogwarts to
      close. I think… I think he likes it there. And then he targeted
      McGonagall, getting Snape—one of his own people—put in charge."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about your amulet?" Hannah asked. "I thought you couldn't
      be possessed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He jumped me when I had it off," Milo said. "I used it to
      disable You-Know-Who's possession of Quirrell, causing him to flee.
      I was vulnerable. And then, well, he had me make a new one for
      myself with a back door, and that was that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait. You're not still, you know… possessed, are you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I'm clear. He lured me into the Chamber of Secrets and
      killed me, giving him a new body or something. I was pretty out of
      it, to be honest. Being resurrected hits 'reset' on status effects
      like possession."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah froze. "You're a ghost?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo laughed. "Oh, thank gods, no." Milo gave Hannah a (highly
      compressed) version of his last three days.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't know you had a sister," Hannah said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Neither did I," Milo laughed. "But I'm back now, and I have no
      intention of dying again. But back to the topic at hand: should we
      trust Sirius?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Wait</em>," Hannah said, her eyes widening. "If your amulet
      had a backdoor…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo cocked his head to the side, wondering where she was going
      with this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…what about all those amulets you made for the Ministry?" she
      finished.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
