<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 64: SD 11: No News is Good News, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover f...</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s27" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 11: No News is Good News</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">FERAL CHILD ON THE LOOSE</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">by Rita Skeeter</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Concerning reports were brought to the attention of the</em>
      Daily Prophet <em class="calibre7">yesterday about a strange and possibly dangerous
      child calling himself "Milo Amastacia-Liadon."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">He's attacked me and my mates several times," says Gregory
      Goyle, a soon-to-be third year student. "But no-one ever does
      anything about it." Goyle declined further comment, citing fears of
      what Amastacia-Liadon will do to him if he went public with the
      full truth.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">There are several eyewitness reports of him performing
      dangerous magic on other students without the use of a wand, as
      some magical children have been known to do in times of stress and
      danger. Among other incidents, he is said to have temporarily
      blinded an entire first-year Potions class, and thrown Harry
      Potter, the Boy Who Lived, from his broomstick during a Quidditch
      match. He was also found in the school grounds alone with a
      critically injured first year girl, who was unavailable for
      comment, who appeared to have suffered serious knife wounds. On
      several occasions he has caused major damage to Hogwarts school
      property, including several broken windows. He is reported to have
      been involved in an elaborate prank to conjure a fully-grown oak
      tree in the middle of the school, costing taxpayers untold galleons
      in repairs. On one occasion, he attacked the family of the Boy Who
      Lived, leading to his arrest by Muggle police officers (Muggles
      armed with sticks who enforce the will of their queen) last summer.
      Further, he was among the last to be seen with Professor Quirrell,
      former Defence Against the Dark Arts professor, before the
      professor's complete nervous breakdown.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">He was thought to have disappeared for good midway through
      his second year at Hogwarts, immediately after a highly-dangerous
      magical beast, the Basilisk, was released into the school. The
      identity of the culprit, claiming to be the "Heir of Slytherin,"
      remains unknown, though some have speculated that it is no
      coincidence that this wild youth fled the school when the Basilisk
      was killed.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">It is unknown at this time if this child is an orphan or
      simply a runaway, but what</em> is <em class="calibre7">known is that despite a
      history of violence and wild behaviour, he has been attending
      Hogwarts for the last two years and there is nothing to suggest
      that he will not return for the term starting next week.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Do not approach Milo under any circumstances. If you have
      any information regarding the identity or whereabouts of this
      child, who was last seen roaming a park near Bristol, please
      contact the Ministry immediately, as much for his own safety as for
      yours.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We have to find this kid," Amelia Bones said, setting down the
      <em class="calibre7">Daily Prophet</em>. The strange necklace she'd taken to wearing
      the last few months dangled from her neck.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Doesn't that sound like a job for the Improper Use of Magic
      Office?" Kingsley Shacklebolt suggested lightly. "Besides, we have
      our hands tied up looking for Black—who, I will remind you, is a
      <em class="calibre7">killer</em>, not merely a delinquent."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This takes priority," Bones said, firmly. "He's one of
      <em class="calibre7">Potter's friends</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't see the connection," Shacklebolt confessed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">He knows where Potter lives</em>," Bones said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And the <em class="calibre7">Prophet</em> just told everyone of that fact."
      Shacklebolt felt his eyes widen as realization hit him. "Sirius
      Black."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We find the kid," Bones said, "and we'll find Black. And Merlin
      only knows who else. This isn't the number one priority. This is
      the <em class="calibre7">only</em> priority."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dangerous, yes, but '<em class="calibre7">feral</em>' seems a bit much," Milo
      grumbled, setting down the <em class="calibre7">Daily Prophet.</em> He felt like
      twelve miles of bad clichés. He'd run out of high-level spells, and
      was therefore unable to muster up another <em class="calibre7">Teleport</em> the
      night before, and with Sirius unable to Apparate, they'd both had
      little choice but to stay the night in his little hidey-hole. Milo
      didn't trust Sirius further than he could Bull Rush him, and didn't
      fancy the idea of falling asleep in a confined space with him. As
      such, he'd had to rely on his least favourite rules loophole:
      technically, to get his spells back, he didn't need to
      <em class="calibre7">sleep</em> for eight hours; he simply had to
      "<em class="calibre7">rest</em>".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sitting with one's back to the wall staring at a snoring escaped
      convict may have counted as 'rest,' although it was far from being
      <em class="calibre7">restful</em>. He was also annoyed by having to once more
      prepare spells without the benefit of his own spellbook, limiting
      him to a handful of his chosen spells and those found in Thamior's.
      <em class="calibre7">Druids never have to deal with this kind of arbitrary
      inconvenience</em>. It would take him weeks of work and hundreds of
      pounds of salt to make a new one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't believe this," Hannah said. She'd dropped by for a
      quick visit early in the morning, before her parents woke up.
      Sirius was still asleep in the corner, and honestly, he looked like
      he needed it. "The <em class="calibre7">Prophet</em> makes it sound like you're a
      wanted criminal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I haven't gotten my Hogwarts letter," Milo said. "Probably
      because their magic owls couldn't find me while I was
      heartbeat-impaired."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The book list is simple enough," Hannah said. "Although the
      <em class="calibre7">Monster Book of Monsters</em> is a bit of a pain. It came with
      a consent form, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A what?" Milo knew what the words 'consent' and 'form' meant,
      individually, but he had no idea what they implied when put
      together like that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a form your parent or guardian is supposed to sign,"
      Hannah said. "It's to allow you to go to Hogsmeade on
      weekends."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That... could be a problem," Milo said. "My parents live in
      another universe, and only one of them is even fully-realized. What
      happens if I can't get it signed?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't get to go to Hogsmeade," Hannah said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Eh," Milo shrugged. "Suits me fine. Anything I want from town I
      can owl order. Besides," he added, "it's not like they could really
      keep me from going there if I really wanted to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, what's your plan, then?" Hannah asked curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Drop by Harry's house, illegally copy his books with
      <em class="calibre7">Amanuensis</em>, <em class="calibre7">Teleport</em> to King's Cross, board the
      Hogwarts Express, and enjoy Snape's surprised look when I come back
      from the dead," Milo said. "No big deal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um," Hannah said. "You might not want to see Harry just
      yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No problem," Milo said. "I'll drop by your house, illegally
      copy your books with <em class="calibre7">Amanuensis</em>, <em class="calibre7">Teleport</em> to
      King's Cross, board the Hogwarts Express, and enjoy Snape's
      surprised look when I come back from the dead. Why shouldn't I go
      see Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Weeeeerrrrlllllll..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione may have gotten it into her head that you were the
      Heir of Slytherin," Hannah said. "And she may or may not have
      convinced some others of this fact."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Milo said. "So you're saying if I unexpectedly drop in on
      Harry, he might think it's an ambush and blast me to smithereens
      with magic?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe," Hannah said. "Probably."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo leaned back heavily in his chair, rubbing his forehead.
      "<em class="calibre7">Hermione</em>," he said, heavily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know, right?" Hannah agreed sympathetically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She is too smart for her own good," Milo said. "Or, more
      accurately, too smart for <em class="calibre7">my</em> own good."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He reached into Relkin's belt and pulled out his Everfull Mug.
      "<em class="calibre7">Prestidigitation</em>," he muttered, waving his hand over the
      water inside. In an instant, it was steaming and milky brown, and
      tasted exactly like spiced cinnamon tea. He took a sip, savouring
      the sharp aftertaste. "It never hits, but it crits."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah chuckled. "I should probably be heading back," she said.
      "I'll drop by this evening with my school books, and some rat food
      for Mordy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait," Milo said, as she got up to leave. "One last thing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh?" Hannah asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"'Hands in the air, dirtbag?'" he asked lightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Hannah said, her cheeks colouring slightly. "Well, I'd
      just been watching a lot of <em class="calibre7">Batman</em>, and, uh, it seemed
      appropriate..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What kind of manservants do they <em class="calibre7">have</em> in this world?"
      Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Hannah asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A batman—it's a soldier who's assigned to an officer as a
      servant, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah chuckled. "Forget about it," she said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After that, they said their goodbyes, and she was off on her
      broomstick.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So," a voice behind him said. Milo whirled around, hands at the
      ready for spellslinging. It was Sirius Black, who wasn't quite as
      asleep as he had appeared. "Looks like we have more in common than
      I'd thought."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do you mean?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He held the <em class="calibre7">Daily Prophet</em>. "We're both wanted," he
      said. "And we both annoyed the same people."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think I follow," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you think it's coincidence that this story broke now, of all
      times?" Sirius asked. "Yesterday you didn't even
      <em class="calibre7">exist</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo blinked. "You think this is part of You-Know-Who's plan?"
      he said. "To turn the peasants against me? But it says here to
      contact the <em class="calibre7">Ministry</em> if I'm found. That's the last people
      that..." Milo was barely aware that he'd stopped talking. If Hannah
      was right about the amulets being cursed, then he absolutely
      <em class="calibre7">could not trust</em> anyone in the Ministry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not <em class="calibre7">his</em> plan," Sirius said. "This has the stink of a
      Malfoy's touch."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am so <em class="calibre7">sick</em> of those guys," Milo said. "And with
      Snape as Headmaster, they'll basically be running Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Snivellus?" Sirius's eyebrows climbed up his forehead. "Are you
      <em class="calibre7">sure</em> you still want to go there in September? It might not
      be the most hospitable place for you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wouldn't miss it for the world," Milo grinned. "As Head of
      Gryffindor, only McGonagall can actually <em class="calibre7">expel</em> me, so the
      baddies can't keep me out. And all the fun happens at
      Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shrugged. "It's your call."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So," Milo said. "As long as we both have nothing better to do,
      mind telling me what's your history with Snape?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius grinned. "Pull up a chair."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bloody <em class="calibre7">hell</em>," Fiona Smythe said, setting down the
      <em class="calibre7">Daily Prophet</em> on the pub table and sliding it over to Evan
      Travis. "Does this boy look at all familiar to you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The <em class="calibre7">Bring 'em Inn</em> was the sort of pub that was
      generally full of coppers that wanted nothing more than a quiet
      drink, some chips, and to forget for a moment that they were
      coppers. Even when the place was packed to the rafters, it was
      always quiet, with most of the clientele sitting by themselves,
      staring into their mugs and trying to think about anything,
      absolutely <em class="calibre7">anything</em>, other than work.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was the perfect place for conspiring.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Travis picked up the tabloid and glanced at the picture. "Nope,"
      he said. "But most little boys of a certain age look sort of the
      same. He probably reminds you of your nephew."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Read the article," Fiona pushed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Travis rolled his eyes in a the-thing-I-put-up-with way, and
      read through the article. A few sentences in, and his smirk was
      wiped off his face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bloody hell," Travis said, putting the paper down. "You don't
      think..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just how many wizard children do you think were nicked by
      coppers in Little Whinging last year?" Fiona asked. "It's him. I
      <em class="calibre7">know</em> it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So say it is," Travis said. "What are we going to do about it?
      This isn't our responsibility anymore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona knew that when he said 'we' and 'our,' he meant 'you' and
      'your.' As it turns out, telling your therapist during a mandatory
      psych evaluation that five constables were killed by magic during a
      raid on a house full of wizards, and that you couldn't remember any
      of it, because, well, <em class="calibre7">magic</em>, doesn't do your career any
      favours. Technically, she was still a copper, but 'mandatory
      indefinite psych leave' wasn't a thing that a job could really
      bounce back from.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Travis had had the good sense to lie through his teeth and a low
      enough rank that he'd managed to evade any blame, and had actually
      been bumped up to fill Fiona's place as police sergeant in the
      latest round of promotions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you think I'm doing?" Fiona asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Travis sighed. "You're going to Bristol."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Damn right I'm going to Bristol."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fiona, I know you don't want to hear this right now, but it's
      important that you keep going to your therapy sessions. It's the
      only way you'll get your job back. You can't just
      <em class="calibre7">leave</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bugger the therapist," Fiona said, standing up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Figured you'd say that," Travis said. "Look, I'd come with you,
      but..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I understand." Travis was in a tough position. Between his
      recent promotion and the lingering black mark of his participation
      in the doomed police raid last year, there was no way he could take
      time off now, especially during the manhunt for Sirius Black. He
      had everything to prove and, now that Hannigan had resigned, few
      friends among the brass. Or anywhere else, for that matter. As
      Fiona had found as well, having your life completely turned
      upside-down by an experience that you couldn't share with anybody
      wrought havoc on your personal life. "Look after Sprocket while I'm
      gone. The keys will be under the doormat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're going <em class="calibre7">now</em>?" Travis asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Their term starts in a few days, and he'll be out of reach once
      he's in their school. There's no time to waste." She grinned, and
      flashed him a smile. She hadn't felt this excited and, well,
      <em class="calibre7">purposeful</em> in almost a year. "The game is afoot."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
