<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 65: SD 12: Hot Fuzz, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s28" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 12: Hot Fuzz</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Someone had seen Milo near Bristol, that someone had recognized
      him on sight, and had chosen to report it to the <em class="calibre7">Daily
      Prophet</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Based off of reports from their network of bird watchers, there
      were three suspected magical homes in the Bristol area that
      subscribed to the <em class="calibre7">Daily Prophet</em>. Or at least, there had
      been six months ago; most of her fellow conspirators were now
      either dead or had moved on with their lives. Of them, only two had
      any children. One of those seemed to have lost the genetic lottery
      (assuming genes were even involved), and attended an ordinary
      public school.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That left a single potential classmate of Milo's in the region:
      one Hannah Abbot. She had the means, opportunity, and, if Fiona was
      right, motive to spot the boy and report it. She didn't know how
      many students were at Hogwarts, but if the <em class="calibre7">Prophet</em> was
      correct and Milo really had stabbed a girl in his year, it seemed
      plausible that it had been a friend of hers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona grinned to herself, putting her files into a bag and
      disembarking from the train. All she needed was a quick change of
      clothes and a payphone to call a taxi and she'd finally get the
      breakthrough she'd been looking for all this time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dinner!" Hannah's father called.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah hurriedly stuffed her textbooks into her bag (except for
      the <em class="calibre7">Monster Book of Monsters</em>, of course, which last she'd
      seen was still lurking in the shoe closet). Her parents didn't know
      that she was sneaking out early in the morning and late at night to
      see Milo, and she intended to keep it that way by avoiding any
      unnecessary suspicion. They'd never seen her with a textbook in
      hand during the summer before, and they weren't going to start
      now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The evidence packed away, she headed downstairs for dinner.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As she headed down the stairs, she heard a knock at the door,
      followed by the silvery tinkle of the chimes her mother had hung on
      the door that announced to the house whenever it was opened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello?" her mother asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Overcome by curiosity, Hannah ducked below the stairwell and
      listened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ms. Abbot?" said a brisk, businesslike female voice with a
      faint Scottish accent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mrs. Abbot, thank you. Can I help you, miss..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Eskarina Smith, Department of Magical Law Enforcement. Would
      you mind sparing a moment of your time to answer some questions,
      ma'am?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, not at all," Hannah's mother said, surprise evident in her
      voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you have a son or daughter approximately thirteen years
      old?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, a daughter. Is she in some sort of trouble?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, ma'am. Nothing like that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah heard footsteps. "What's going on?" her father asked as
      he walked to the front door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is Eskarina from the Ministry," her mother said. "She's
      here because... actually, why <em class="calibre7">are</em> you here, Ms.
      Smith?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We at the DMLE have reason to believe that your daughter may
      have information pertinent to locating a missing person," Eskarina
      answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah's heart skipped a beat. How had they found her so
      quickly? Or at all, actually?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hannah?" her mother asked incredulously. "If the missing person
      happens to be a package of Oreo biscuits, maybe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah bristled. That only happened the <em class="calibre7">one time</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"With your consent, I'd very much like to speak to her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a pause, and Hannah could practically picture the
      looks her mother and father were exchanging. "Very well," her
      mother said, finally. "<em class="calibre7">If</em> we can be present."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course, ma'am."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hannah!" her father called.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah had already crawled most of the way back up the stairs
      just so she could convincingly hurry down them from the top.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes?" she asked, rounding the corner to the front hall.
      Standing there between her parents was a pint-sized witch with
      ragged, greasy brown hair, dark bags under her eyes, and a black,
      pointy hat with a brass buckle on the front. She looked like she'd
      just barely survived some sort of Shampoo Apocalypse, and had come
      to warn the world of the dangers of proper hair hygiene. And of
      sleeping, for that matter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hannah, this woman wants to speak with you," her father said.
      "You don't have to answer her questions if you don't want to, but
      you do have to be honest. Do you understand?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To confirm," Eskarina said, a Muggle-style notebook and pen in
      hand. "Are you Hannah Abbot?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yup," Hannah said. The witch scribbled down her answer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you a student at Hogwarts?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yup."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What year are you in at Hogwarts?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Starting my third year tomorrow," Hannah said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have you ever seen this boy," she asked, holding up the
      photograph of Milo from the <em class="calibre7">Daily Prophet</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's a classmate of mine," Hannah said evasively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Would you describe this boy as a friend of yours?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah paused. She didn't want to say anything to this woman
      that would lead her to the conclusion that she would know anything
      about where Milo was hiding, but she also didn't want to lie
      outright. For all she knew, the woman could use magic to tell.
      "He's in my House," she said, and immediately cursed her
      wording.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excuse me?" the woman said, reaching into her pocket,
      presumably for a wand. "He's here <em class="calibre7">now</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, no, no," Hannah said hurriedly. "My House at school. House
      Gryffindor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see," she said, relaxing. "So you take classes together, that
      sort of thing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can you positively identify this boy as Milo
      Amastacia-Liadon?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you know where he's from?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah shook her head. "Not exactly. I don't think he's from
      anywhere in the UK, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eskarine cocked her head sideways. "And why is that?'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"His accent's different. Could be American, maybe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see," the woman said, scribbling in her notebook. "Would you
      describe Milo as 'dangerous,' Hannah?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah paused, and thought about it. <em class="calibre7">Was</em> Milo
      dangerous? She thought about the Redcap, and about the Troll, and
      about what he'd done to the Death Eaters in the Gryffindor Common
      Room. <em class="calibre7">On the whole</em>, she thought, <em class="calibre7">yes, he's very
      dangerous... but he's on our side.</em> She couldn't very well say
      that, could she, though?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd prefer not to answer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eskarina's eyes narrowed. "Has this boy ever harmed you or
      anyone you know?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd prefer not to answer." Her mother and father shot her sharp
      looks, identical, unspoken questions forming on their lips.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have you seen this boy at any time in the last seventy-two
      hours?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd prefer not to answer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you know where this boy is right now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd prefer not to answer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eskarina put her notebook and pen away. "Thank you for your
      time," she said to the three of them. "That will be all. Have a
      nice evening." With that, she crisply spun about on the heel of one
      foot, and walked down to the road.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait!" Hannah's mother called. "What's going on?" But the woman
      either didn't hear her or chose not to, and quickly walked out of
      sight. As soon as she was gone, both parents turned to look at
      Hannah.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She had to warn Milo that the heat was on, but one look from her
      parents, however, told her that that would have to wait until she
      could effectively shake them off—a daunting proposal, to say the
      least. They were likely to be full of questions, now that the woman
      from the Ministry had implied in front of them that she'd been
      attacked by this boy at school (which she had, technically, but it
      hadn't really been <em class="calibre7">her</em> at the time, and it was all a
      misunderstanding, anyway).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona practically skipped down the street, shoving the
      uncomfortable robes and hat into her satchel as she did. That girl
      had all but screamed 'I KNOW SOMETHING' at her. Fiona had expected
      the girl to send her right to Milo, but apparently, she'd opted to
      cover for him instead (which, then, raised the question: if she
      hadn't turned him in to the <em class="calibre7">Prophet,</em> who
      <em class="calibre7">had</em>?<em class="calibre7">).</em> Obviously, she hadn't said anything that
      would hold up in a proper investigation, but, refreshingly, this
      <em class="calibre7">wasn't</em> a proper investigation. In fact, as far as Fiona
      could tell she hadn't even broken any laws—there was no rule
      against pretending to be part of what was, as far as her government
      was concerned, a fictional, supernatural, organization to engage in
      completely consensual conversation. She did feel somewhat guilty
      about tricking a child, but the last time she'd underestimated
      magical children, Milo—she was <em class="calibre7">sure</em> it was him—had pinned
      her partner down with magical tentacles and then called in a crack
      team to erase her memory. At least, that's what she'd written down
      before losing said memory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The next phase of her plan required a little more preparation, a
      few phone calls, and a fair amount of money, but if she'd gauged
      the situation in the Abbot household accurately, she reckoned she
      had two hours at least to prepare—which was, of course, part of her
      plan, once she'd established that Hannah was likely co-operating
      with Milo.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Black robes and a black hat against the black night sky were
      virtually invisible, save for the occasional blotted star or
      silhouette against a tree. Even the most observant person didn't
      have a hope of following a flying witch at night. It wasn't magic,
      it was simply human biology.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Which was why, when, two hours later, Fiona spotted Hannah
      climbing out her bedroom window, she had no intention of trying to
      track her with her bare eyes alone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The AM/NIR-7 was a bulky, military headset from the mid-eighties
      that flooded the world in fluorescent false-colour magentas and
      oranges, depending on heat or radiation or whatever phlebotinum the
      thing used to work. After some fiddling with it, she configured it
      to highlight Hannah in bright white. While very nifty, the thermal
      goggles weren't <em class="calibre7">strictly</em> legal, but then, she wasn't
      strictly a copper, and anyway, who was counting? Besides, she was
      out of her own jurisdiction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah shot off into the night, and Fiona raced after her on a
      rented dirtbike. She'd reckoned that the girl would mostly follow
      major highways to get to her destination (assuming it was out of
      the city centre, as the <em class="calibre7">Prophet</em> had implied), as she
      couldn't imagine navigating by broomstick at night would be easy
      without frequent landmarks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona was more than breaking the speed limit, but she knew to
      avoid most of the major speed traps and most patrolled routes. She
      didn't have to directly follow the flying girl, just make sure she
      remained in sight at all times. Hannah stopped to check a map and
      get her bearing every few minutes, each time allowing Fiona to
      close the distance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Had it been daytime, Fiona was sure she wouldn't have had a
      prayer of following the broomstick, which could easily travel at
      double the bike's speed, and, further, could completely ignore more
      mundane considerations such as traffic and geography. But as it
      was, Fiona kept within a few kilometres of the flying girl, until
      she was abruptly cut off by a speeding lorry, and lost her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Dammit</em>," Fiona muttered, pulling over and scanning the
      skies. Nothing gave off the telltale white glow. She was just about
      to call it a failure and head back to Bristol to come up with an
      alternate plan, when she spotted a white, vaguely humanoid shape on
      the ground. She lifted up the goggles, revealing a scraggly,
      seemingly-abandoned field that might have once been farmland.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Abandoning her bike by the side of the road, she easily hopped
      the low stone wall and sprinted towards the figure. Well before
      catching up to her, however, she simply disappeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona lifted the heavy headset again (the thing clocked in at
      two-thirds of a kilo... her neck was going to take its sweet
      revenge on her tomorrow, of that she was certain), feeling foolish.
      In front of her was a solid, adult-sized boulder. Sitting in the
      middle of a field, as it did, it'd probably caused no shortage of
      irritation to the former owners of this field.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Could Hannah really have simply vanished? If wizards and witches
      were capable of <em class="calibre7">Star Trek</em>-style teleportation, that
      <em class="calibre7">did</em> explain how they managed to get around so easily in
      their ridiculous robes without arousing suspicion. Had that been
      how her police raid had been so handily slaughtered last year? If
      only she could <em class="calibre7">remember</em>...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No. If Hannah could simply will herself around, why on Earth
      would she fly here on broomstick? She had to still be around
      somewhere, but was concealed by trickery or sorcery.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Given that she was hiding nearby, and that she couldn't simply
      turn invisible (or she would have done so <em class="calibre7">en route</em> to this
      hideaway), it meant that, somewhere nearby, there was a hidden
      entrance, tunnel, or other hiding place. She'd chosen to land near
      this rock rather than somewhere else in the field, so it stood to
      reason that the rock played some part in the hiding place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona circled the rock, deep in thought. There was no sign of a
      false door or entrance, and the vegetation wasn't overgrown enough
      to hide a person—even if it was, she realized, it certainly
      wouldn't mask their heat signature. Fiona pulled the bulky headset
      over her eyes once more and scanned the area.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There wasn't any sign of anyone around her...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...wait.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Something... weird... happened when she looked at the rock face
      with the headset on. A section of the rock, just over five feet
      across, was simply <em class="calibre7">gone</em>. She pulled the headset off, and
      stared at it again, this time fishing for her torch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sure enough, now that she looked at it in plain light, a large,
      square chunk of rock wavered indistinctly in front of her,
      revealing a passageway beyond.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello..." she murmured to herself, entering the tunnel. She had
      to stoop to enter, and for once was grateful that she was, well,
      somewhat vertically challenged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She crept down the tunnel silently, staying to the shadows
      wherever possible. Before long, it widened into a small, square
      room with some crude, handmade-looking wooden furniture. Lining the
      walls was enough obsolete weaponry to give Sauron pause, as well as
      other simple survival gear (including some literal torches).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The room, however, seemed to be completely empty of any
      inhabitants. Just to be certain, Fiona scanned the area with her
      thermal goggles, but she didn't spot anyone. There was, however, a
      mug of tea on the table—and, judging by the glow it gave off, it
      was still hot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Next to the mug was a copy of yesterday's <em class="calibre7">Daily
      Prophet</em>, and a map of the world with a big hole stabbed
      through the paper roughly over her current position, as well as a
      handful of other markings across Britain. Fiona donned on some
      rubber gloves from her bag (old habits are hard to break) and held
      the map up to the light of her torch. She spotted a few slight
      deformations in the surface, and flipped the map over, revealing a
      hand-sketched area that Fiona realized corresponded to the
      surrounding field.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona flipped the map over again, and made a mental note of the
      locations of the other X's. What were they? Magical settlements?
      Other hideouts? Targets of some kind?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And what was with all the crossbows? For the life of her, Fiona
      couldn't fathom why a <em class="calibre7">witch</em> would need a weapon, much less
      an archaic one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And where had Hannah and the others gone? There didn't seem to
      be any more hidden passageways, and they had to have been here
      recently—the tea was evidence enough of that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona sighed, and, deciding that she must have just missed them,
      settled in to do some more rigorous investigation of the little
      hideout.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was <em class="calibre7">way</em> too close," Hannah muttered as she
      re-oriented herself after the <em class="calibre7">Teleport</em>, which was easy
      enough, considering that the new bolt hole they found themselves in
      was largely identical to Milo's previous one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Agreed," said Milo. "But how did they know you were with
      me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shrugged. "Process of elimination. Can't be too many
      classmates of yours living in the area."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But how did they find my hiding place?" Milo asked. "I put so
      much <em class="calibre7">work</em> into that!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you sure they did?" Sirius asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo nodded. "I had an <em class="calibre7">Alarm</em> spell up. <em class="calibre7">Someone</em>
      triggered it after Hannah got in."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then she must have been followed," he said. "Difficult, but
      possible. Most likely with an invisibility cloak and a broomstick."
      He grinned wryly. "It's how I'd have done it. More to the point,
      though, we need to keep moving."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo snorted. "Come, now. That can't be needed. There's no
      possible way they'll find us here. We <em class="calibre7">Teleported</em>, we
      didn't fly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shook his head. "Doesn't matter—we left the map
      behind."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shrugged. "That will only help them if they find their way
      through the illusion, which would take an <em class="calibre7">exceptionally</em>
      strong Will. Back when I cast it, I was buffed like you wouldn't
      even believe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't get into the DMLE by collecting bottle caps," Sirius
      said. "I wouldn't count on your magic to keep them out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, then where can we go?" Hannah asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think I know a place," Sirius said. "It won't be terribly
      comfortable, but I can guarantee, nobody will think to look
      there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mrs. Abbot was woken up by knocking at her door. She climbed out
      of bed, pulled on a housecoat and stepped into some slippers, and
      went downstairs to see who it was. Mr. Abbot was not far behind
      her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello?" she asked, opening the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mrs. Abbot?" a friendly-looking man in deep purple robes
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, that's me," she said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm Kingsley Shacklebolt, with the Department of Magical Law
      Enforcement," he said. "Would you mind sparing a moment of your
      time to answer a few questions?"</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
