<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 66: SD 13: Passing Notes, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s29" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 13: Passing Notes</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Protection from Good</em>," Milo cast on the silver,
      palm-sized Eye of Boccob on the desk in front of him. In his
      experience, it never hurt to have a couple of extra holy symbols
      around for when the vampires come knocking. This time, <em class="calibre7">just in
      case</em>, he'd created the amulet while under the effects of a
      separate <em class="calibre7">Protection from Good</em> spell. So even <em class="calibre7">if</em>
      Riddle was somehow still in his mind, he wasn't exerting any
      influence over <em class="calibre7">this</em> amulet. He wished he had his old
      spellbook back so he could cast the marginally more helpful
      <em class="calibre7">Protection from Evil</em>, but he might as well wish for a
      Candle of Invocation or the moon. He'd just have to make do with
      what he had, for now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you almost done yet?" Hannah asked, her arms wrapped around
      herself for warmth. For all that it was late summer, it was also
      the middle of the night, and the hovel Sirius had brought them to
      was far to the north. The thin glass windows (where they weren't
      broken) and ancient wooden walls provided little in the way of
      insulation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo nodded. "Just finished," he said, clipping the amulet
      around his neck. The plot was thickening fast, and he had
      absolutely no intention of going <em class="calibre7">anywhere</em> without his
      customary Amulet of Protection—especially considering that the
      Ministry was after him, and they weren't known to use restraint
      when it came to memory modification. Still, he had to be careful
      crafting items for now, because he was only a hair over the
      threshold of level nine, and didn't have any XP to waste.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So can we go home, now?" Hannah asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shook his head. The cold didn't seem to bother him as he
      reclined in the shabby, rat-eaten chair. "I don't recommend it.
      They'll be watching your house. Your disappearance will have
      confirmed for them that you're an accomplice with Milo, here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My parents will be freaking out," Hannah said. "Could I at
      least get a message to them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo scratched his chin. "I don't have any specialized
      long-range communication spells, and I've only got enough juice for
      one more <em class="calibre7">Teleport</em>," he admitted. "And that's if I burn all
      but one of my fourth-level spells. I could deliver a message, but
      I'd be stuck there. Sirius?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shrugged. "They took my wand when they threw me in
      Azkaban," he said. "You'd have to lend me yours," he said to
      Hannah. "I don't have a House Elf's hope of casting a Patronus, so
      I'd have to Apparate there with a letter." He sighed. "But..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...we'd have no guarantee you wouldn't simply run off with my
      wand?" Hannah said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Sirius said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd lend you mine," Milo said, "except that a certain
      dretch-lover has his bony little hands on it. And most of my other
      swag."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah shrugged. "Okay," she said, and passed her wand,
      butt-first, to Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you <em class="calibre7">insane</em>?" Milo choked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Trust me," she said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius stared at the wand as if she'd just offered him the
      world. In a way, Milo supposed, she had. Milo imagined he might
      feel much the same way when he finally got his hands on his old
      spellbook.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," he said, accepting the wand. To Milo's
      astonishment, there were actual tears in his eyes. Hannah scribbled
      a quick note on a scrap of parchment from Relkin's Belt of Hidden
      Pouches. "You won't regret this," he said, taking the note and
      Disapparating with a <em class="calibre7">pop</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I repeat," Milo said, turning to Hannah. "<em class="calibre7">Are you
      insane</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Think about it," Hannah said. "Now we get to test, with a
      reasonable degree of certainty, if we can trust him. If he returns
      the wand, we trust him. If he makes a run for it, we can't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What if he comes back to tie up the loose ends?" Milo
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have you ever seen a wizard try to cast magic with someone
      else's wand?" Hannah asked. "It usually takes a half-dozen tries to
      get even the simplest of spells working. If he comes back for us,
      just blind him with your glittery dust, or conjure up some
      tentacles to grab him, or trip him with grease. You know—the usual.
      If you have to, shatter the wand. I can always buy a new one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo's jaw opened and shut involuntarily as he tried to come up
      with a counter-argument. "That's actually a pretty clever plan," he
      conceded grudgingly. "Reckless," he added. "But clever. So, what'd
      you tell your parents?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The truth," Hannah said. "Anything else would only complicate
      the situation further. But I used language that only they'd know,
      so if the DMLE finds the note, it won't mean anything to them. I
      also asked them to bring my school stuff to King's Cross tomorrow."
      As she spoke, her stomach rumbled noisily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hungry?" Milo asked, pulling his Everlasting Rations out of his
      belt. Seeing as how he probably wasn't going to be able to return
      it to its original owner any time soon—if ever—he decided to stop
      thinking about it as 'Relkin's Belt.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks," Hannah said. "I ran off before I had a chance to eat
      dinner." She reached into the bag and pulled out a handful of
      crunchy, greyish, vaguely round blobs. "Ah," she said.
      "<em class="calibre7">These</em> again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry," Milo said. "I'm out of <em class="calibre7">Prestidigitations</em>, so I
      can't do anything about the taste."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah shrugged. "There's a Charm the Weasley twins were telling
      me about last year that makes anything taste like peach cobbler,"
      she said. "They use it whenever their father cooks. But I don't
      have my wand, and even if I did, I can't use magic in the
      summer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo had heard about that rule, of course, but he hadn't really
      thought about it before. "That <em class="calibre7">sucks</em>," he said. He'd
      already only had to spend less than a week with reduced spell
      casting capacity after Voldemort took his spellbook, and it was
      really starting to wear on him. He couldn't imagine having to go
      for two months without using <em class="calibre7">any</em> magic at all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Hannah said. "And it's the most surefire way I can think
      of to keep us from remembering anything we learned the year before.
      Before Hogwarts, I went to Muggle school—my parents didn't know if
      I'd take after my mum or my dad when it came to magic—and it was
      hard enough remembering, say, maths after the summer. But even
      then, I mean, I never did, but <em class="calibre7">theoretically</em>, I could have
      cracked open a textbook and brushed up during the break, right? But
      with magic, doing a bit of summer revising is <em class="calibre7">illegal</em>.
      Which is annoying, because unlike maths, floating feathers around
      is actually pretty fun."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo could hardly speak. He'd just heard what had to be the most
      horrifying thing he'd ever encountered. "You..." he pulled himself
      together. "You <em class="calibre7">forget</em> your skills if you don't use
      them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I mean," Milo continued, "you actually get <em class="calibre7">worse</em>? Not
      like, maybe getting a bit rusty and not realizing what the most
      effective spell to cast in a given situation is," Milo knew full
      well <em class="calibre7">that</em> feeling, having been thrown against a Dragon
      Turtle shortly after returning to his world, after only fighting
      wizards and the occasional Redcap for a year, "but actually
      <em class="calibre7">forgetting how to cast the spell</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Hannah said. "Not just magic, everything. Languages,
      facts, talents. Physical stuff, too—if we go without exercise, we
      get unhealthy. Is it really not like that for you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shook his head. "I've never actually had the opportunity to
      speak so much as a whole conversation in Draconic," he said, "but
      I'm still fluent in the language. And always will be."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah gave a low whistle. "Sometimes, I forget how different
      you are," she said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And so do the Death Eaters," Milo grinned. "Nobody has yet
      hatched an evil scheme that relies on me not perfectly remembering
      minutiae from years ago, but one day, someone will. And when they
      do..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo was planning on finishing that sentence with something
      machismo-laden like '<em class="calibre7">bam!</em>' before performing a pantomime
      punch, but instead, he was cut off by the distinctive <em class="calibre7">pop!</em>
      of Apparition, which he supposed worked almost as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo turned to find Sirius Black standing behind him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I left your letter on the kitchen table," he said, returning
      Hannah's wand. In his other hand, he held up a large paper bag with
      a bright-yellow 'M' printed on it. "I also brought dinner," he
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Detect Poison</em>," Milo muttered under his breath, but
      the bag came up clean. He nodded to Hannah, who casually tossed the
      tasteless Everlasting Rations behind her and leapt at the paper bag
      in a manner reminiscent of a Dire Lion taking down a gazelle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo forced himself to re-evaluate Sirius Black. Maybe, just
      maybe, he could trust this strange, fugitive shapeshifter after
      all—a welcome revelation, all things considered, as until he could
      clear up this whole 'Heir of Slytherin' business, his list of
      allies was remarkably short.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Either way, this whole 'on the run' business was about to come
      to an end. Tomorrow, one way or another, he was boarding the
      Hogwarts Express and going to school. Hogwarts was where the action
      was, where the plot happened, and where the Experience Points lay
      about just <em class="calibre7">waiting</em> to be claimed. The Death Eaters
      wouldn't dare make a move on him there—well, they had last year,
      now that Milo thought about it, but it had hardly been
      <em class="calibre7">easy</em> for them. And if the Ministry decided to have him
      arrested, well, they could <em class="calibre7">try</em>. In his experience, there
      were two distinct strands of law enforcement, depending on who had
      been irritated. The first was sent when a PC made an enemy of
      someone powerful, and were generally low-to-mid-level government
      employees just there for the paycheck, and could be reliably
      defeated in droves. If that was the case, Milo wasn't worried. But
      the other kind only appeared if a PC had made an enemy of the
      <em class="calibre7">DM</em> ('Dispassionate Moderator'), in which case, they would
      have at least ten levels of experience on the party, have access to
      unfeasibly expensive hardware for a government agency, and come in
      groups of essentially infinite. And if that was the case, well,
      Milo still wasn't worried—there wouldn't be anything he could
      do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Come to think of it, though, he <em class="calibre7">had</em> been pushing the DM
      pretty hard of late.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To test a hypothesis, Milo reached out and tapped one of the
      shack's interior walls, to see if it would devolve into a pile of
      hundreds of quarterstaves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo wondered: was that because the DM (or the gods, for that
      matter) had altered the nature of the universe after he had
      revealed such an easily-exploitable flaw, was it because of the
      different nature of <em class="calibre7">this</em> world versus the other one, or
      was it, most concerning of all, because this world had a different
      DM than the other one? One who made different calls, and with
      different motivations?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo's food went cold in front of him, untouched, as he drifted
      among his own thoughts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona woke up, and immediately wished she hadn't.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her left leg was on fire.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She wasn't supposed to be running on it yet, possibly ever.
      Hell, she wasn't even supposed to be <em class="calibre7">walking</em> without a
      cane. Getting shot is like that, sometimes—hardly ever like in the
      movies, where Bruce Willis can shrug off numerous gunshot wounds in
      one movie and walk in on the beginning of the next with nothing to
      show for it but a cool scar, if that. She never did find out
      <em class="calibre7">how</em> she'd taken a bullet to the thigh, as those bloody
      wizards had taken her memory from that night, but just because she
      couldn't remember <em class="calibre7">being</em> shot was no reason she shouldn't
      remember that she <em class="calibre7">had</em> <em class="calibre7">been</em> shot. She'd just
      gotten so caught up in the moment, the hope that she might finally
      get some <em class="calibre7">answers</em>, that nothing else seemed to matter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her neck was hardly in better shape, having had to support a
      ludicrously heavy piece of military-surplus hardware for most of
      the night before. She wanted nothing more than to stay in bed for
      another hour or twelve, as even the thin mattress of the cheap
      motel she was staying in felt incredible in her state. She also
      wanted to go home, to see Sprocket, and to read a good book.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As much as she wanted to, however, she knew she couldn't. Today
      was the first day of term for the wizarding world, and every
      student attending Hogwarts was going to be at King's Cross station,
      according to the <em class="calibre7">Daily Prophet</em> and <em class="calibre7">Hogwarts: A
      History</em>. It was too good of an opportunity to pass up, much as
      she'd like to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She pulled herself out of bed reluctantly, tucked the disaster
      that was her hair into a pony tail, threw some clothes on, grabbed
      her bag, and left. The sun had yet to rise, but it was all the same
      to her. She barely ever slept more than an hour or two at a time
      these days, anyway, so all this meant was that the walk to the
      train station would be a quiet one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">—eleport</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">King's Cross was the same as ever, albeit with a non-moving,
      Muggle poster or two up warning passersby that the dangerous
      criminal, Sirius Black, was on the loose after having escaped from
      an unnamed prison.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo wondered just how much co-operation there was between the
      Muggle and magical governments. Were the people at the top well
      aware of the magical world's existence? Was the Muggle ruler a
      wizard himself? (Or witch herself; Milo neither knew nor
      particularly cared who was in charge on the Muggle side of things).
      Or had the magical government simply planted some false evidence,
      and memories, in front of the right people to make them take the
      steps they'd wanted?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All that was quite irrelevant, of course. Milo didn't know what
      role Sirius Black was to play in whatever Voldemort's evil scheme
      was going to be this year (he always seemed to have one), but it
      had nothing to do with his problem at the moment: getting onto the
      Hogwarts Express, and getting to Hogwarts, despite being pursued by
      the DMLE. <em class="calibre7">Why</em> he was being pursued, he wasn't totally
      clear, but he very evidently <em class="calibre7">was</em>, which was what mattered
      in this case.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Invisibility</em>," he muttered as soon as he arrived, and
      disappeared from view.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey," Hannah whispered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah?" Milo whispered back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you're invisible," Hannah said, "can you see when you close
      your eyes?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo frowned. "No..." he said, though he couldn't figure out
      <em class="calibre7">why</em> that would be the case. If his eyelids were invisible,
      why <em class="calibre7">couldn't</em> he see with his eyes closed?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Weird. I'm going to go find my parents and my luggage. I'll
      meet you in front of the train, okay?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sounds like a plan," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah turned to leave, but froze. "Do you see that woman over
      there?" she asked, covertly pointing at a dishevelled-looking,
      dark-haired woman in a wrinkled man's shirt several sizes too large
      for her, whose sleeves looked like they'd been rolled up a
      half-dozen times just so her wrists could poke out. She had heavy
      bags under her eyes, and leaned against a pillar surreptitiously
      facing Platform Nine and Three-Quarters with a wooden cane within
      easy reach. "She was the one who came to talk to my family. She had
      a bunch of questions about you and if we knew where you'd been
      hiding. She's with the DMLE."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo narrowed his eyes and started counting the adjectives. "No,
      she isn't," he said. He'd seen her once before, when she'd arrested
      him in Harry's house—but she'd been in the uniform of the local
      city watch, then. What he hadn't <em class="calibre7">ever</em> seen before,
      however, was a random mook show up again, having apparently
      <em class="calibre7">gained characteristics</em> since then. Whoever this NPC was,
      she was clearly <em class="calibre7">highly significant</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How long do we have until the train leaves?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh..." Hannah consulted her wristwatch, "twenty minutes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Save me a seat," Milo said, and strolled towards the mysterious
      woman.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona nearly jumped out of her skin when a piece of paper was
      pressed into her hand, despite the fact that there was no-one
      within five meters of her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She reached into her bag and pulled out her well-worn copy of
      <em class="calibre7">The Restaurant at the End of the Universe</em>, and read the
      note such that the book was hiding it from view—ironic, considering
      she'd first learned that trick to read the very same book hidden
      inside <em class="calibre7">Principles of Maths 11</em> to keep it out of view of
      her teacher, Mrs. Haversham.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The note was written on a thick, heavy material that Fiona was
      surprised to find wasn't paper at all, but some sort of thin animal
      skin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Walk slowly towards the corner by the door with the big red
      glowing EXIT sign. Come alone.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">P.S. that came out more villainous than I'd
      intended.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well... that wasn't creepy or anything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If it hadn't been for the fact that whoever had given her the
      note had clearly used magic to do it—<em class="calibre7">nobody</em> could sneak up
      on her like that—she'd assume that following the instructions would
      be walking right into a mugging. Most likely, whoever it was was
      simply going to erase her memory again, which was something Fiona
      was willing to risk, seeing as how she'd already written the day's
      events in a journal, and was wearing a wire to boot. Nevertheless,
      it was a <em class="calibre7">decidedly</em> creepy thing to do, giving someone a
      note like that out of the blue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Curiosity overcame common sense, and she decided to follow the
      note's directions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The corner the note mentioned was as good as one could find in
      such a public place for a secret meeting. It was out of direct line
      of sight both of the entrance and of Platform Nine and
      'Three-Quarters,' and one of the lights nearby seemed to have burnt
      out, shading it in a modicum of darkness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was hardly there for a second before a boy appeared beside
      her. He was wearing black robes with a silver trim and an
      honest-to-goodness Batman-esque utility belt, complete with dozens
      of pouches. A massive brown and white rat sat on his shoulder,
      mimicking his expression disconcertingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Milo," Fiona said, nodding. She didn't remember their last
      encounter, but her own notes mentioned that she'd managed to
      handily subdue him with a billy club, and he didn't have his wand
      out. She shifted her weight, and her grip on her cane. She didn't
      have her billy club this time, but she <em class="calibre7">did</em> have
      two-and-a-half feet of solid wood, which was at least as good.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know my name?" Milo asked. "Who <em class="calibre7">are</em> you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona shrugged. "Someone inquisitive," she said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is spectacularly unhelpful," Milo said. "Look, I recognize
      you from Little Whinging, unless you have an identical twin,
      and—wait. <em class="calibre7">Do</em> you have an identical twin? If so, we should
      probably get that whole misunderstanding out of the way sooner,
      rather than later. Dramatic irony is fun and all, but it isn't
      terribly <em class="calibre7">productive</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona shook her head, somewhat bewildered. This wasn't how she
      expected this meeting to go at all. In her mind, this strange
      wizard child had always been something of an evil mastermind,
      manipulating events behind the scenes. But she was fast facing the
      possibility that he really was as mad as the <em class="calibre7">Daily Prophet</em>
      had made him out to be. "No, I don't have a twin," she said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Great. Anyway, look, I'll just cut to the Initiative roll here:
      why were you pretending to be with the Ministry? And what's your
      interest in Hannah Abbot?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why do you think I'm only <em class="calibre7">pretending</em> to be with the
      Ministry?" Fiona asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because you're with the city watch..." Milo frowned. "Unless
      you're a witch who was pretending to be a Muggle? Honestly, I
      hadn't considered that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona simply shrugged. She didn't know where this conversation
      was going, but it seemed like keeping Milo off-guard would only
      work in her favour. "Now, I have a question for you: why did you
      attack that family in Little Whinging?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who, them?" Milo asked. "Uh... they were being pretty awful to
      a friend of mine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry Potter?" Fiona asked. She'd read a <em class="calibre7">lot</em> about
      this 'Boy Who Lived' in the books she'd bought from Diagon Alley.
      Apparently he was viewed as some sort of
      saviour-slash-minor-messiah-type-character by the magical community
      after he somehow defeated an improbably-named hardened criminal as
      a baby.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Milo said. Then his eyes narrowed. "What's your interest
      in Harry?" The boy shook his hands free of his sleeves and flexed
      his fingers in a way not unlike a gunslinger from a Western.
      Despite his lack of wand, Fiona recognized his body language: the
      boy clearly considered himself armed and dangerous.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"None," Fiona said honestly. "Though if there was some sort of
      abuse going on, there are steps I can take."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shrugged. "I already took care of it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean threatening his aunt and uncle at swordpoint?" Fiona
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pretty much," he said, not, apparently, much caring that he'd
      as good as confessed to a crime. "<em class="calibre7">Detect Object: Wand</em>,"
      the boy muttered under his breath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona tensed. The boy had said it in the rote, slightly
      sing-songy way of a memorized, oft-repeated phrase that's meaning
      was quite devoid of the actual words said. She was pretty certain,
      in short, that he'd cast a spell—<em class="calibre7">without a wand</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're no witch," Milo said. "How did a Muggle like you even
      find out that the Department of Magical Law Enforcement
      <em class="calibre7">exists</em>? What's your angle, watchwoman?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I just want answers," Fiona said. "How did the magical
      government arrange for the British police to hunt for Sirius Black?
      Why did those wizards and witches steal those kids from Hogwarts?
      Why weren't they arrested by your government? If they're at large,
      where are they?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo blinked. "You mean Sean, Dean, Thomas and them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Fiona said. "Although I think Dean and Thomas are
      actually the same person."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do you even <em class="calibre7">know</em> about them?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was part of the police raid that <em class="calibre7">saved</em> them," Fiona
      said. "Good men and women died that day." <em class="calibre7">And so did my
      career</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Lockhart</em> saved them," Milo said. "He fought the Death
      Eaters off single-handedly. It was all over the papers, Hannah
      said." <em class="calibre7">Hah</em>, Fiona thought. <em class="calibre7">I</em> knew <em class="calibre7">that girl
      was in cahoots with him.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Death Eaters," Fiona said. "Was that who they were? Aren't they
      what's-his-face's criminal gang?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You could call them that," Milo said. "Are you saying that
      Lockhart <em class="calibre7">lied</em> about saving them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Was that the golden-haired Kenneth Branagh-lookalike?" Fiona
      said. "Yeah. He took the credit, and my memories." She'd had to do
      a good bit of investigation to figure that one out; one of the
      nurses said she saw someone who looked a bit like Hamlet in the
      halls, and asked for an autograph. It was the first time she'd ever
      seen a suspect <em class="calibre7">sign their real name</em> during the act.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you mean to tell me that <em class="calibre7">you</em> went up against a
      gaggle of Death Eaters and won?" Milo asked. "I wish I'd seen
      Lucius's face when he heard <em class="calibre7">that</em> news," Milo said
      dreamily. "No wonder they let the story about Lockhart get out; if
      anything, it's <em class="calibre7">less</em> embarrassing that way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lucius?" Fiona asked. "Lucius <em class="calibre7">Malfoy</em>?" He appeared in
      the <em class="calibre7">Prophet</em> frequently as a wealthy philanthropist, giving
      money freely to charitable causes—and, now that Fiona thought about
      it, probably a certain magical news media corporation, as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, he's basically their leader," Milo shrugged. "Well, he
      was until You-Know-Who came back. I imagine that shook things up a
      bit." The boy glanced up at the large clock on the wall. "Well, I'm
      out of time. This conversation was interesting, but ultimately
      unhelpful. I was hoping for more, I don't know, <em class="calibre7">clues</em>.
      Plot hooks. I guess that Lockhart thing could be relevant.
      <em class="calibre7">Invisibility</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Without any drama or special effects, Milo vanished from
      sight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait!" Fiona said. "I <em class="calibre7">don't</em> know who!" But it was to
      no avail; the boy was gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Despite what the strange boy seemed to think, though, this
      conversation was <em class="calibre7">highly</em> profitable—just not for him,
      maybe. Because now she had a <em class="calibre7">name</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Lucius Malfoy</em>...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo slipped through the solid-seeming wall at Platform Nine and
      Three-Quarters just as the Hogwarts Express started it's... Milo's
      mind blanked on the technical terminology. It was doing the thing
      where it made a lot of noise just before it started moving. The
      doors had already shut.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Dimension Door</em>," Milo muttered, and suddenly he was in
      the train's central hallway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He strolled down the hallways, glancing through the windows into
      the compartments, until he found Hannah. The seat next to her was
      empty, and Neville sat across from her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah jumped. "Milo! Don't sneak up on people like that!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry," Milo said. He'd forgotten he was still invisible, and
      dismissed the spell. "Did I miss anything?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope," Hannah said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's the Hogwarts Express," Neville said. "What could possibly
      happen?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo nodded his agreement to that, and sat down next to Hannah.
      "So I take it you don't think I'm a lunatic feral child?" he
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville shrugged. "You saved me from poison back in first year,"
      he said. "You're fine in my books, even if you were raised by
      wolves."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo grinned, and leaned back, ready to enjoy a lengthy and
      uneventful trip.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Hannah had said—it was the Hogwarts Express. What could
      possibly happen?</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
