<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 67: SD 14: The Hogwarts Express, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover f...</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s30" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 14: The Hogwarts Express</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">"H-Hannah?" Milo asked, stunned. <em class="calibre7">Gods, what have I
      done?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was no response.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay," Milo said, out loud. "I'll go find her, and she'll be
      fine. Just... fine. You'll see."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo stood up from his prone position, shaking off snow. He
      waded through the deep snow to where <em class="calibre7">Locate Object</em> told
      him Hannah lay.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He felt as if he was drowning in cold. The air, the snow, even
      his own clothing, felt like ice water.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hannah?" Milo called again, yet was again unanswered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Abruptly, the snow stopped blocking Milo's vision, revealing an
      old tree that might have been a willow. Hannah lay against it,
      slouched into a half-sitting position. Her wand was held loosely in
      her right hand; her left was clutching the hilt of Milo's dagger.
      It was sticking out of her stomach. It was difficult to tell—her
      school uniform was black, after all—but there was a lot of blood. A
      scary amount of blood. Her head lolled to her the side, and she
      wasn't moving.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And it was all Milo's fault.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah stirred feebly, and reached for her wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"E... e..." she said weakly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, Hannah," Milo said gently. "You'll be okay, okay? I've...
      I've got a Healer's Kit and +1 from Wisdom, so I can do first-aid,
      okay? So just... don't move." Milo tried to reach for his kit, but
      found that his arms were locked into place, as if the ice water had
      frozen completely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ex..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tell me back at the castle, when you explain just <em class="calibre7">what</em>
      you were doing out here, 'kay?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Expecto Patronum</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Milo! Milo! Wake up, mate!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were lights hanging above him, and he could just barely
      make out a pink, round face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Neville?" Milo asked. The blizzard was gone, as was the tree,
      leaving only the feeling of ice—and the guilt. "What... what
      <em class="calibre7">happened</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Still happening," said a familiar voice. Milo blinked, trying
      to clear away the blurriness. He felt slow, and weak. Neville's
      face slowly came into focus, and Milo saw that he looked the way
      Milo felt. Worse, even, if that were possible. The normally
      ever-present, slightly dopey smile was gone, replaced by a pale
      grimace.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ex... ex... expecto... 'specto..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They were still on the Hogwarts Express, Milo realized. The last
      thing he remembered was drifting off on the train, confident in his
      safety. Now, he was lying on the floor of the compartment in a pool
      of his own sweat. He turned to face the door, and almost wished he
      hadn't.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Floating in the doorway was a... <em class="calibre7">thing</em>. The best Milo
      could describe it was a three-dimensional shadow that had taken the
      form of a tattered, black cloak. It vaguely resembled a Wraith,
      except that it was exposed to broad daylight through the train's
      windows and was still alive.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He couldn't make out the majority of its shape, as Hannah stood
      between him and the shade, wand out, shaking like a gelatinous cube
      in an earthquake. <em class="calibre7">Or like she was shivering, out in the
      forest...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">A hair-thin tendril of white-grey fog floated between her and
      the shade, which seemed reluctant to touch it, but it was fading
      fast.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah was keeping it at bay, but it wouldn't last. She needed
      help.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo pulled himself to his feet and shook his hands out of his
      sleeves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fortunately for her, he was something of an old hat at fighting
      things that could best be described as 'eldritch.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Glitterdust</em>!" he shouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing happened. Milo frowned. He hadn't failed a Concentration
      check, like he had when chased by Death Eaters the other day, so
      what had happened? He wasn't in an Antimagic Field, or his Belt of
      Hidden Pouches would have exploded as the non-dimensional space
      inside each pouch became uncomfortably, well,
      <em class="calibre7">dimensional</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Maybe he should just try another spell?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Kelgore's Fire Bolt</em>!" Again, nothing happened. It
      didn't <em class="calibre7">feel</em> like he'd tried and failed to cast the spell,
      though, it felt more like...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...like when he'd died. During his sojourn into the Outer
      Planes, he'd been similarly unable to perform magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But he couldn't be dead, could he? He was still in the Material
      Plane, implying, if he <em class="calibre7">had</em> died, he was more of
      <em class="calibre7">undead</em> persuasion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He didn't <em class="calibre7">feel</em> undead, though. He still had a
      Constitution score, for starters, and his maximum Hit Point count
      hadn't increased, which was supposed to happen to undead...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo froze. His maximum Hit Point count hadn't increased.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It had <em class="calibre7">decreased</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...specto... patronum..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wispy tendril between Hannah and the shade disappeared, and
      Hannah collapsed to the floor. Pushing aside the problem of his
      reduced Hit Point total for later, he focused on the problem at
      hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Summon Skeletal Troll</em>," Milo tried—and failed—to cast,
      unsure of what else to do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The shade rounded on him, reaching out what Milo took to be an
      arm towards him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Giving up on magic, Milo reached into his bag of tricks,
      producing a thin glass flask of water with a brass sun stamped on
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo flung the flask at the shade in a hefty overhand throw.
      "Eat holy water, freak!" he said in a manner he'd intended to be
      defiant, but it came out a little closer to 'feeble.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The flask shattered harmlessly against the revenant's torso,
      accomplishing nothing but making it a little damp.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo backed into the corner, almost tripping over Neville, who
      lay on the floor with his eyes rolled up into the back of his
      head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Driven once again to the absolute last resort of any primary
      spellcaster, Milo reached into his Belt of Hidden Pouches and drew
      the quarterstaff he'd acquired from his bolt hole's weapon
      stores.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo gripped the staff at one end with both hands and swung it
      around him with all the strength he could bring to bear (which,
      bearing in mind that he was a Wizard, was next to none) and swung
      directly at where the shade's head would be, had it had one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As he swung, however, he felt his grip slacken and his arms
      weaken. He heard a clatter ring through the compartment, and
      belatedly realized that he'd dropped the staff, and the only thing
      keeping him standing was the wall he was leaning against.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What <em class="calibre7">are</em> you?" he choked, sliding to the ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The shade reached towards him, and its cloak slipped, revealing
      a pale, rotten hand that gently gripped Milo by the chin. He hadn't
      felt this helpless since Riddle had drained his soul in the Chamber
      of Secrets.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Expecto Patronum</em>!" shouted out an unknown male
      voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A silver-white dog burst into the room, slamming bodily against
      the shade, pinning it against the wall above Milo. Where the dog's
      paws and teeth gripped the tattered cloth, steam appeared as if the
      mere contact of this spectre burned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sirius?" Milo murmured, feeling half-delusional, but as he
      examined the animal more closely, he realized it was a wolf, not a
      dog.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The shade managed to slip free of the animal's grasp, and fled
      through window, scattering shards of glass across the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What was that you said?" asked a man in the hallway. His eyes
      widened, presumably as he noticed the full extent of the carnage
      that had occurred in the compartment for the first time. "Never
      mind that. How are you all feeling?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mrggnnnnnnn..." Hannah groaned, pulling herself up into a
      sitting position.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man, who looked more worse for wear than anyone Milo had
      seen alive, bent over to examine her more closely, careful of the
      shards of window and holy water flask on the ground. Milo realized
      belatedly, as he followed the creature's progress out the window,
      that at some point the train had stopped moving. "I'm sorry, what
      did you say?" the stranger asked, leaning closer to Hannah.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I said, 'like my bloody brain got mauled by a bloody bobcat,'"
      Hannah muttered, holding her hand against her forehead. "Ow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What she said," Neville agreed, sitting up. "What happened? Was
      that a... a..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A Dementor," the stranger said solemnly. "Though why someone
      decided to let one loose on a train full of children escapes me.
      Eat this," he said, breaking off a piece of chocolate to hand to
      each of them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">That's</em> a Dementor?" Milo asked. "What..." he
      swallowed. "What did it <em class="calibre7">do</em> to me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing that a little chocolate and some time in the sun won't
      fix," Lupin said. "Best not to dwell on it. Which one of you
      produced the Patronus?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The mist thingy?" Neville asked. "That was Hannah."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was a <em class="calibre7">very</em> advanced spell," the man said.
      "Fifteen points for... uhm..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gryffindor," Hannah said, taking a bite out of the chocolate
      bar.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fifteen points for Gryffindor, then. I'd best be off," he said,
      "there's still many more students to check on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait," Hannah said as he turned to leave. "Who are you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, of course," the man said. "I'm Remus Lupin, the new Defence
      Against the Dark Arts professor. I'll be seeing you all in class
      tomorrow, I expect." With that, he hurried off, his worn grey robes
      trailing behind him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did you know how to cast the expecto-whatsit?" Neville
      asked Hannah curiously, munching away on chocolate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"After Milo di..." she swallowed slightly. "After Milo
      <em class="calibre7">disappeared</em> last year, and the Basilisk attacked Hermione,
      Harry, and Ron in the halls, I sort of thought I should study up on
      some more advanced defensive magic. That's the first time I'd
      actually managed to make the spell work, though," she admitted.
      "And barely, at that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It probably saved us," Milo said. "Boccob knows I was
      completely useless," he added ruefully.
      "<em class="calibre7">Prestidigitation</em>," he muttered, intending to clean up the
      glass on the floor, but again, nothing happened. It was almost as
      if... "Wait," Milo said. "Didn't Siri..." he glanced at Neville,
      "our furry friend say something about the Azkaban guards draining
      happy memories?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah nodded. "Dementors are said to take away your happy
      thoughts," she confirmed, "including your memories. The only thing
      that can stop them is a Patronus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let me guess—they also make you relive your worst ones?" Milo
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sometimes," Hannah said. She gave him a curious look, but
      didn't press the issue when he changed the subject.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think it took my spells," he said. Every morning, he had to
      memorize the spells he was intending to cast that day, and if the
      incantation for <em class="calibre7">Glitterdust</em> didn't count as a happy
      memory, then surely nothing did. Though how it had pulled it off
      while Milo wore his Amulet of Protection was beyond him—he was
      supposed to be immune to all forms of mental attack. "...and my
      Experience."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah's eyes widened. "How can you be certain?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shuddered. "I'm weaker, now. Much weaker." He took a bite
      out of the chocolate, and it was like (and Milo was embarrassed to
      even think this, accurate as it was) taking a bite out of sunshine
      itself. He swallowed, and felt warmth spread from his stomach
      outwards. It didn't return his spells or Experience Points,
      however. He estimated that he'd lost at least two <em class="calibre7">thousand</em>
      XP, dropping him back down a level—taking his ability to
      <em class="calibre7">Teleport</em> with it. "Thank you," he said to Hannah, and he
      really meant it. "If you hadn't intervened, that could have been
      worse. Much worse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Will you... be okay?" Hannah asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo nodded. "I'll be right as rain as soon as I pound a few
      monsters' faces in," he said. "Though I doubt I'll roll maximum HP
      again when I level up." he narrowed his eyes. "Actually, if we can
      trap a Dementor in a controlled environment, I can use it to
      repeatedly de-level and level up again in order to get the highest
      number of HP each time with minimal XP cost. I'll get two free new
      spells each time, too." Despite the warmth from the chocolate, he
      shivered slightly at the thought of willingly subjecting himself to
      the Dementor's attack again. Some memories were best left in the
      past. "Though I don't expect I'll actually do that. You say the
      <em class="calibre7">only</em> way to fight them is with this spell?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah nodded. "<em class="calibre7">Nothing</em> else—not even the Killing
      Curse—has any effect on them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Damn</em>," Milo said meaningfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He knew he'd been pushing things pretty far lately, but he
      hadn't realized that he'd apparently crossed the line enough to
      make the DM resort to <em class="calibre7">this</em>. Dementors seemed purpose-built
      to completely <em class="calibre7">destroy</em> him in particular. They could steal
      his most potent abilities, they could permanently take away his
      hard-won experience points, and, worst of all, if Hannah was right,
      he was completely helpless against them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo leaned back against his seat, trying to devise some sort of
      strategy to deal with these Dementors, if and when he encountered
      them next. Perhaps a spell like <em class="calibre7">Heroism</em> could counter the
      happiness-sucking-ness of their attack, but Milo was unable to cast
      any spell from the Enchantment school—which ruled out any spell
      that had any sort of mind-affecting or morale-based effects. The
      real surprise was that they could somehow work around the
      protection granted from his amulet. That ruled out possession and
      mental control as things the Dementor could have done to him, which
      really made him wonder what it <em class="calibre7">had</em> done. How was forcing
      someone to relive their worst memories while you stole their best
      ones <em class="calibre7">not</em> mental control? Did chocolate <em class="calibre7">really</em>
      counter the Dementor's attack because of a property unique to
      chocolate—a property that could be exploited—or was it simply
      because most people <em class="calibre7">liked</em> chocolate, and that
      <em class="calibre7">comfort</em> was the counter? Would a favourite musical
      composition, perfume, or painting have a similar effect? Or was it
      that chocolate, specifically, had some sort of anti-Dementor
      property, in a similar way that garlic did for vampires?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey..." Neville said, breaking Milo out of his reverie. He
      wasn't sure how long he'd been musing on the issue for.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How come we haven't started moving, yet?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo narrowed his eyes. The Dementor was long gone, and the lack
      of screams and impacts of fainting students hitting the ground
      meant that there weren't any more aboard the train.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dementors work for the Ministry, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"More or less," Hannah said. "Although they're more like...
      <em class="calibre7">extremely</em> dangerous work animals than actual
      employees."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Meaning they wouldn't send them out alone without a handler,"
      Milo reasoned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probably not," Hannah agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can Dementors communicate with humans?" Milo asked. "Such as
      to—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The compartment door slammed open, and a wizard and pair of
      witches entered, wands held out threateningly. <em class="calibre7">Such as to
      report that they found a wanted person</em>, he was going to
      say.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Milo Amastacia-Liadon," the one in the front said in an
      authoritative tone, "You're coming with us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uhm," Milo said. "Why? Other than the fact that you have wands
      out and I don't, of course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For your own protection," the man said. "I'm Kingsley
      Shacklebolt, with the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, and we
      have reason to believe that you're being targeted by dangerous
      felon, Sirius Black."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That doesn't make any sense," Hannah cut in. "If Sir—if Black
      is after him, then surely the safest place for Milo is at
      Hogwarts?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is not a request," Shacklebolt said. "I've been authorized
      to use force if needed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo held his hands up. He had no spells, hardly any magic
      items, and no real hope of escape. He considered bolting out the
      window, but it was all open fields—he wouldn't get thirty feet
      before they took him out with a Stunner. One look at Shacklebolt
      and the others dispelled any notion of fighting his way out with
      physical force. They looked almost as tough as the Muggle police
      he'd seen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm coming," he said. Milo stopped, a sudden thought occurring
      to him. "Hey... none of you happen to be wearing one of my amulets,
      do you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you talking about?" Shacklebolt asked. "No, and I'd
      suggest against any further delays. Get your things and let's get
      going."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, I don't actually <em class="calibre7">own</em> anything, <em class="calibre7">per se</em>,"
      Milo said. All of his possessions were in his Belt of Hidden
      Pouches—and scattered throughout bolt holes across the country, but
      he had no intention of tipping the Ministry off to their existence,
      if they didn't already know. "So that won't be a problem."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Shacklebolt gave him a weird look. "Fine. Let's go." He placed
      his hand on Milo's shoulder, and Milo was greeted with a distinctly
      unpleasant sensation not unlike being pulled through a Portable
      Hole backwards as they Disapparated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius Malfoy adjusted his robes in front of the mirror.
      Appearance would be critical, today. His pawns in the Ministry
      should be bringing in the freak momentarily, and he needed to be
      present. As a member of the Board of Governors, it was his duty,
      nay, his <em class="calibre7">privilege</em> to protect his students, and Milo was
      no exception. Why, he couldn't <em class="calibre7">imagine</em> a better way to do
      that than to suggest the boy be sent to a safehouse in, say, Egypt,
      or Nepal. Somewhere far, far away from the 'ruthless criminal,'
      Sirius Black.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was interrupted from his thoughts by a knock on his manor
      door. Dobbie was out getting some last-minute school supplies for
      Draco, so Lucius went to answer the door himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello?" he asked curiously, opening the door, but whoever had
      been there had already left. At his feet, however, was a large
      manila envelope addressed to him stamped with what had to be an
      unnecessarily large, red 'URGENT'.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius picked it up curiously and examined it, searching for any
      indication as to who it was from.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who the bloody hell is Inland Revenue?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona smiled to herself as she hung up the payphone. Some
      problems, the government was content to sit on, moving at the
      barely perceptible speed of, well, government, taking little to no
      action. Other problems were simply conveniently forgotten about, or
      shuffled back and forth between departments and bureaus for so long
      that they may as well have been. But there was one <em class="calibre7">very
      specific</em> kind of problem that launched the government into
      action at speeds that would make Einstein sit up and take notice.
      This, she was quite certain, was one of those cases.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Lucius Malfoy</em>, she thought, <em class="calibre7">is in for a</em> bad
      <em class="calibre7">day.</em> She wondered what the interest was on unpaid property
      taxes dating to before the Magna Carta, and whether it came with a
      prison sentence or not. The important thing, of course, was simply
      to get him 'on the books,' so to speak, like the Abbots had been.
      Running shady conspiracies is much harder when you're in the public
      eye.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona flipped through the phone book and fished another couple
      of coins from her satchel. She still had a few more phone calls to
      make—this time, to the first red top tabloid listed in the
      phonebook.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
