<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 69: SD 16: Safer Justice Practices, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossove...</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s32" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 16: Safer Justice Practices</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius Malfoy winced as Tom Riddle slammed the Muggle tabloid
      onto the table, scuffing its immaculate finish. They were in
      Lucius's dining room, though Riddle had taken Lucius's customary
      seat at the head of the table. Bellatrix sat silently in the
      shadows, twirling her wand about her fingers. Aside from them, the
      house was empty.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How could you let this happen?" Riddle asked. "Explain
      yourself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius glanced at the headline. <em class="calibre7">MASSIVE COUNTRY ESTATE
      HIDDEN IN PLAIN SIGHT</em>. And, underneath it in slightly smaller
      font: <em class="calibre7">Weird Tree Found Growing out of Roof.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I…" Lucius hesitated. How <em class="calibre7">had</em> this happened? The
      Muggle authorities had never troubled him before. What changed?
      "I'm looking into the matter, my lord," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It made the papers, Lucius," Riddle said. "The
      <em class="calibre7">papers</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can take care of this," Lucius said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How?" Riddle said. "You can't Obliviate the entire country."
      Bellatrix glanced at Riddle, an unreadable expression on her
      face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius bristled, but he fought back his response. He couldn't
      stop himself from thinking it, though. <em class="calibre7">Maybe if you hadn't
      Imperiused the Ministry's head Obliviator and sent his
      second-in-command to an alternate world with an ancient ritual, it
      never would have gotten this far</em>. That was the problem with
      most so-called 'Dark Lords.' They're so blinded by the prospect of
      absolute power that they don't stop and think about how much
      day-to-day minutiae they're shouldering on themselves after
      liberating it from the powers that be. <em class="calibre7">Someone</em> has to keep
      the floo networks open, pay the owl post office workers' pensions,
      and keep the Muggle world from discovering the wizarding one.
      <em class="calibre7">Driving out the Mudbloods and obtaining immortality is all well
      and good, but what's your ten-year economic plan, Riddle?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Muggle news isn't like ours, my lord," Lucius said. "Three
      weeks ago they reported they saw Bigfoot in downtown London."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle blinked. "That's ridiculous. Everyone knows Bigfoot never
      leaves Tibet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Precisely, my lord. Magical Britain only has one paper of note:
      the <em class="calibre7">Daily Prophet</em>." Lucius had gone through great pains to
      make certain that was the case. "Wizards and witches have no choice
      but to believe what the <em class="calibre7">Prophet</em> tells them. They have no
      other source of information. To Muggles, this is but one shocking
      scandal among many. Until it gets picked up by a reputable paper,
      no-one will take this story seriously."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's to stop just that from happening?" Riddle asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll give them a bigger story." Lucius smiled slightly. "The
      bigger question, my lord, is <em class="calibre7">who</em> tipped them off. My home
      is protected by Charms; Muggles can only come here if they already
      know it exists." Other wizards liked to prevent Muggles from coming
      altogether, but sometimes Lucius found it useful to exert some
      influence on the non-magical who were nevertheless 'clued-in'—such
      as the parents of magical children, or certain Muggle officials—and
      there were few better ways to do impress a person than to show them
      a house such as this one. <em class="calibre7">Or rather, there weren't until that
      bloody boy put that bloody tree through my roof…</em> It would
      still take months to repair the damage. "One of our enemies has
      moved against us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle laughed. "No-one worth concerning ourselves over would
      attack us with <em class="calibre7">Muggles</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius was beginning to have deep suspicions about the 'Dark
      Lord'—beginning with why it was so easy to think of him as Tom
      Riddle, rather than by his title. He was growing increasingly
      convinced that Riddle hadn't simply returned with a teen's body,
      but a teen's mind, as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"'The coward in the shadows can be more dangerous than the
      champion in the light,'" Lucius quoted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wise words," Riddle conceded. "Who said them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">You did, right after Pettigrew sold out the Potters</em>.
      "Merlin," Lucius shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle held his fingers together in a narrow steeple for a
      minute or two, deep in thought. "Very well," he said. "You seem to
      know these Muggles well, Lucius." He didn't say it with any
      particular intonation or expression that would hint at it, but
      Lucius did not fail to notice the implied insult. "Find their
      source when you clean up your mess."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, my lord," Lucius said, bowing low. When he looked up
      again, Riddle was gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For a moment, I thought he was going to off you then and
      there," Bellatrix said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius simply shook his head. "He needs me too much for
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix's eyebrows shot up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why ever would the Dark Lord need <em class="calibre7">you</em>?" She said in a
      mocking tone, but hesitated for a moment. Lucius stopped and paid
      close attention to her—he couldn't remember ever having seen her
      show doubt before. "Did you notice anything a little… different
      about him? Other than his body, of course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Like the fact that he's got the power of a living legend and
      the impulse control of a hormone-addled teenager?</em> "No," Lucius
      said. This incarnation was <em class="calibre7">infinitely</em> preferable—and more
      easily manipulated—than the last. Bellatrix was feared and
      respected by the other Death Eaters, so he needed her loyal to
      Riddle. Significantly more feared and respected than he was. If she
      began to waver… "He does and says exactly what he means to, as he
      always did." Lucius wondered idly if there was any way he could
      arrange for her to be… martyred for the cause.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix nodded dubiously. "How much do the taxmen want?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius told her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is it still three and a quarter pounds to the galleon?" she
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. It's up to five."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blimey," Bellatrix said. "Still, wouldn't want to be in your
      shoes." She glanced down at his Italian leather loafers. "Shiny
      though they may be."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Bellatrix left his office, Lucius realized he wasn't
      altogether certain he disagreed with her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He turned back to the tabloid on his desk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Who would stoop to using Muggles as a weapon?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona adjusted her robes uncomfortably as she skimmed through
      the book in the aisle of Flourish and Blotts. She doubted she'd
      ever get used to robes. They were a little too much like dresses,
      which she never much cared for, either—far too much loose cloth to
      be grabbed if some street hooligan resisted arrest. She also wasn't
      entirely clear on what she was supposed to wear <em class="calibre7">under</em>
      robes. Did witches wear trousers under their robes? Underskirts of
      some variety? Tights? Fiona didn't know and had no real way to find
      out, so she did wore what she was sure any sensible person would,
      given the option: trainers, sweatpants, and a stab vest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…and all they found of him was his little finger…" Fiona mused.
      She kept coming back to that line. Was it rhetorical? Simply added
      for effect? But she'd seen it in the other books, too. Still, it
      was possible that one writer came up with it to add a little zest
      to the story, and others cited the first one, and then each other,
      until it became established fact.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But, well…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona had some mates who'd fought in Kuwait, but even before
      that, she'd known that that just wasn't how explosions
      <em class="calibre7">worked</em>. They didn't just <em class="calibre7">vaporize</em> people—not at
      the scale of this one, at least. She'd seen enough movies to know
      that. The only real 'vaporization' she'd seen had been from
      <em class="calibre7">Terminator 2</em>, but that was an atomic blast, and a
      nightmare besides.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wizards had passed it off to the Muggle world as an
      exploding gas line. Fiona remembered, because her cousin's
      boyfriend was among the twelve Muggles killed. (If her cousin was
      to be believed, he'd been a bit of a git, mind, so it was no great
      loss to the world). The footage from the news showing the
      devastation certainly made it <em class="calibre7">look</em> like a more-or-less
      conventional explosion, though the wizards could have faked
      that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona was tempted to just throw up her hands and say 'it's
      magic. There's no reasoning with it.' But all the books she'd found
      agreed that the spell had made a bona fide <em class="calibre7">explosion</em>, not
      some fancy magic-disintegration-blast-thingy or whatever. And that
      meant it had to follow some of the rules of a proper explosion, and
      simply <em class="calibre7">deleting</em> ninety-nine percent of Pettigrew's body
      from existence <em class="calibre7">wasn't</em> following those rules, especially
      because the other twelve victims had left, well, corpse-shaped
      corpses.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Oh, and this was after Pettigrew shouted that Black had betrayed
      the Potters to Voldewhatsit—though how that had entered the public
      record, Fiona couldn't say, because everyone present at the time
      had been promptly blown up. Then, who should stumble across the
      scene? None other than <em class="calibre7">the Minister for Magic himself</em>, who
      testified that Black was standing there, covered in blood, holding
      Pettigrew's finger, and laughing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No, scratch that. He <em class="calibre7">didn't</em> testify, because there
      <em class="calibre7">hadn't been a trial</em>. Bloody <em class="calibre7">Goering</em> got a bloody
      trial, but not Black?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So, allegedly, Black killed thirteen people with a single spell
      in broad daylight, with twelve of them dead by explosion and one of
      them dead by spontaneous existential failure. Then, he was caught
      bloody-handed (so to speak) by the Minister showing every symptom
      of shock before being thrown into a prison whose guards <em class="calibre7">steal
      happy memories</em> (such as those of being, for example,
      <em class="calibre7">completely innocent</em>) before being given a chance to
      testify, which was bizarre, given that he was apparently the only
      surviving witness to Pettigrew's accusations of guilt, which, as
      they were <em class="calibre7">not</em> happy memories, <em class="calibre7">did</em> enter the
      historical record.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And all of this happened on the wizard equivalent of bloody V-E
      Day, with the Death Eater leader dead and his followers defeated or
      dispersed. <em class="calibre7">Nobody</em> was even <em class="calibre7">close</em> to paying
      attention to what was happening with Black and Pettigrew (other
      than the twelve dead Muggles, who were rather <em class="calibre7">too</em> close)
      given <em class="calibre7">that</em> news cycle. It was little wonder that nobody
      noticed the laughably thin case against him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The question wasn't whether Sirius was framed. It wasn't even
      who was in on framing him. It was who <em class="calibre7">wasn't</em> in on it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona slammed shut the book, <em class="calibre7">A History of the Wizarding
      War</em>, and roughly reshelved it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This wasn't even a bloody miscarriage of bloody justice. It
      hadn't even had the chance to get that far. This was a bloody
      <em class="calibre7">contraception</em> of bloody justice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Secret communities and secret laws and secret prisons for secret
      crimes. It rankled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona glanced at her watch. She'd debated leaving it behind,
      being unsure if witches and wizards wore them, but decided it
      didn't really matter—even the magical community must have a few
      weirdoes. She'd just play it off as something her 'Muggleborn'
      friend got her for Christmas. (Did Wizards do Christmas? There was
      so much to learn.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">3:43. Damn</em>. She'd missed another of her mandatory
      therapy sessions. Oh well; she'd deal with the fallout when this
      whole thing blew over. She wasn't quite sure what this 'whole
      thing' entailed, but it had something to do with Black, something
      to do with Malfoy, and something to do with Milo.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Fiona Smythe, Master Detective</em>, she thought ruefully.
      She was pretty sure she knew whodunit, though she wasn't entirely
      clear on what they dun, or why they dunit. Which was exactly the
      opposite of the way you're supposed to investigate a crime.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She turned to leave, and accidentally bumped into an unknown
      witch and wizard. They looked vaguely like each other, with similar
      dark brown hair and heavy cheekbones. The wizard walked with a cane
      and had close-cropped black hair and a slightly surprised
      expression on his face. The witch was a stocky little woman with a
      mean look to her. She'd never seen them before (at least, she
      didn't <em class="calibre7">think</em> she had. Having a repeatedly-wiped memory
      could create all <em class="calibre7">kinds</em> of anxieties that her therapist was
      <em class="calibre7">itching</em> to discuss.), but something in her gut didn't like
      them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"'Scuse me," Fiona murmured, looking down to avoid showing her
      face and trying to step around them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Watch where you're going," the witch snapped, then turned back
      to the wizard. "Now, where were we, Amycus?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Amycus</em>… Fiona thought, trying to walk casually out of
      the store. <em class="calibre7">Why does that name ring a bell</em>?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did that witch look familiar to you, Alecto?" Amycus asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Bollocks</em>. Fiona remembered where she'd last heard the
      names Amycus and Alecto before. The <em class="calibre7">Carrows</em>. They'd been
      some of that Volder-fellow's most violent supporters during the
      so-called 'Wizarding War' back in the eighties, but had got off
      claiming they were bewitched. More recently, Amycus had been the
      bait that had led a lot of good people to their deaths in the
      London Massacre last year. She picked up the pace, navigating her
      way through the winding aisles.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Alecto said. "She looks a mite like Ash, doesn't
      she?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, our cousin, Ashley." Evidently, Amycus didn't know,
      because Alecto felt the need to clarify further. "The fat one."
      Fiona clenched her teeth slightly, despite herself.
      <em class="calibre7">Fat?!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, Fat Ash!" Amycus said as Fiona reached the door. "No… she
      looked more like… tip of my tongue…" Fiona pushed the glass door
      open, causing the bell hanging above the door to sound out. She
      wasn't sure if it was the bell attracting his attention, or just
      bad luck, but just as she left the shop, Amycus and Fiona locked
      eyes. His narrowed in what Fiona prayed was not recognition. "…that
      Muggle Auror lady what shot me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now that was hardly fair. Fiona had no memory of the events of
      that disastrous raid, but it was on the record that her own firearm
      hadn't been discharged that night. The only 'Muggle' (Fiona
      <em class="calibre7">hated</em> that word) lady who had been doing any shooting that
      night had been Lyndon. It wasn't just that he'd made her; he'd made
      her as the <em class="calibre7">wrong copper</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona flung herself into a roll onto the muddy street as a pair
      of red bolts of magic smashed through the storefront's window after
      her. They went over her head and took an unsuspecting young witch
      in the street full in the chest. The witch went down without a
      word, unconscious. Well, Fiona <em class="calibre7">hoped</em> she was unconscious.
      She'd read that killing spells were supposed to be green, but Fiona
      wasn't willing to bet her life that just because a spell wasn't
      green didn't mean it wasn't dangerous. Also, for all she knew,
      wizards and witches just straight-up saw magic differently. Maybe
      red magic looked green to them. Or maybe the author of the
      spellbook she'd read was colourblind. On top of that, as a cop, she
      was well aware of the difference between 'nonlethal' and
      'safe'.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She picked herself up off the ground and sprinted down the
      street as more spells flew after her. Just when she thought she'd
      lost them among the panicking crowd, they simply <em class="calibre7">appeared</em>
      directly in front of her. As in, one moment there was open space,
      and the next, <em class="calibre7">bam</em>. Two dark wizards. Or a witch and
      wizard, to be more accurate. It was bloody inconvenient not having
      a common, gender-neutral collective noun for persons of a magical
      persuasion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Shit</em>!" Fiona debated turning around and running away,
      but she'd never make it—the street was starting to thin out, and
      the witchards would have a clear shot at her. Instead, she did the
      last thing anyone—including herself—would expect.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She charged them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Waaaaaaaagh!</em>" She screamed. To distract them, of
      course, and not because she was terrified. She was a stone-cold
      fighting machine. Margaret Thatcher reincarnated in copper form.
      The Copper Lady. Totally.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona collided bodily with Amycus, whose injured leg crumpled
      beneath him. She grabbed him by the hair and robes and rolled him
      over, to get her between him and his sister.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bloody hell!" Amycus shouted as Fiona wrenched at his hair.
      "Get her!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't get a clear shot!" Alecto protested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amycus awkwardly threw a punch at her chest, but winced as his
      knuckles hit her stab vest through the robes. Fiona seized the
      opportunity and slammed her forehead into Amycus's nose with a very
      satisfying crunch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So use a bloody Stunner, you stupid cow!" Amycus shouted at his
      sister, blood pouring from both nostrils.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right!" Alecto said. "<em class="calibre7">Stupe</em>—" Not wanting to risk the
      chance of getting hit, Fiona instead worked her feet under Amycus's
      torso and kicked him off her in Alecto's general direction. He
      slammed into Alecto's shins, not quite knocking her over, but
      definitely ruining the aim of her spell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Alecto was distracted, Fiona reached into her pocket, grabbed
      the tiny can of not-strictly-legal pepper spray she had concealed
      there, aimed it at the witch, and held down the button.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Merlin's beard</em>!" she screamed, clawing at her eyes.
      "It burns! She hexed me! She hexed me! She's a witch! It's the
      wrong bloody woman!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a ruddy potion, Alecto!" Amycus shouted, pulling himself
      to his feet. "She doesn't have a wand!" Amycus tried to aim his
      wand at Fiona, wiping blood out of his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The little pepper spray bottle ran dry, so Fiona whipped it as
      fast as she could over her shoulder and released her grip. It hit
      Amycus square in his already-broken nose at about Mach three. The
      dark wizard screamed and fell to his knees, then gasped again as he
      was reminded, painfully, that he'd recently been shot in one of
      them. His wand fell from his hands, and Fiona snatched it off the
      ground before it could be used against her again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Scourgify</em>," Alecto muttered behind her. Fiona spun,
      trying to remember what that was a spell for. Hadn't she seen it in
      <em class="calibre7">One Thousand and One Household Charms</em>? It was the Scouring
      Charm. It was harmless. But why would Alecto cast a cleaning spell
      now?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">A cleaning spell</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona turned to find Alecto's wand held straight at her face.
      Alecto's eyes were perfectly clear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Bloody</em> magic, Fiona grumbled inwardly. <em class="calibre7">It's not
      bloody</em> fair. With that much spray to the face, she should have
      been incapacitated for ten or twelve minutes <em class="calibre7">at least</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who the hell <em class="calibre7">are</em> you?" Alecto snarled, her wand hand
      trembling with anger. "How did you get here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona had to supress an urge to roll her eyes. Alecto was
      carrying a tool that could act as a 100%-effective non-lethal
      incapacitant. There was <em class="calibre7">no reason to threaten someone with
      it</em>. Alecto could simply have stunned her, warped her somewhere
      dark and quiet using magic, and <em class="calibre7">then</em> threatened or
      ensorcelled answers out of her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Something that had been drilled into Fiona during training was
      that disarming someone with a gun pointed at you is
      <em class="calibre7">extremely</em> risky. Someone shaking, scared, and amped up on
      adrenaline can pull the trigger in <em class="calibre7">milliseconds</em>. Technique
      was important, as was speed, because you had to do it perfectly on
      your first try, or you were probably dead. More important, though,
      was distraction. You needed your assailant's brain focussed on
      something other than you and their gun. Even something small, like
      talking or listening, could make a huge difference in their
      reaction time at the scales involved.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But wands weren't like guns. Guns, already aimed and loaded,
      were an instant away from firing. Fiona was willing to bet that in
      trained hands, a wand could be used to cast spells about as quickly
      as a gun could be accurately aimed and fired. But all of that time
      was on the <em class="calibre7">leadup</em> to the attack, with the incantations and
      whatnot, whereas, firing a gun, most of the time was <em class="calibre7">after</em>
      the bullet was fired, stabilizing the weapon and re-aiming after
      the recoil. Guns could even be fired after you'd grabbed it with
      both hands and still kill you, as long as the other person's
      trigger finger was still in place. But wands? Wands needed fancy
      gestures and twirls and swishes and the like. Precision,
      concentration, and grace. From what she understood, it was
      borderline impossible for a wand to 'go off' in a struggle and hurt
      somebody.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona grabbed Alecto's wrist with her left hand and twisted,
      forcing her to drop it. Then she wrenched Alecto's arm behind her
      back, kicked her legs out from underneath her, and pinned her to
      the ground with her knee in the small of her back. Her right hand
      instinctively reached for her handcuffs, before remembering she
      hadn't had any since she'd been removed from active duty—and they'd
      be inaccessible under her robes, even if she was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even if she did, she couldn't very well arrest them in Diagon
      Alley—she'd never get them into London proper before the wizard
      police, or whatever they called themselves, arrived. Speaking of,
      Fiona wondered how long she <em class="calibre7">did</em> have before they got here.
      On the one hand, lack of phones would slow down communication, but
      on the <em class="calibre7">other</em> hand, they could simply beam over here
      <em class="calibre7">Star Trek</em>-style, which would more than make up for that.
      Fiona needed to make herself scarce.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona reminded herself that Alecto was a hardened killer who had
      access to fancy magical healing besides, then lifted her head up by
      her hair and slammed it into the cobblestones. Unlike in the
      movies, people don't often conveniently fall asleep after moderate
      trauma to the head, so Fiona let her go and, using both hands,
      snapped her wand in half like a twig.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By this point, Amycus was still whimpering on the ground and
      clutching his nose, so Fiona decided to take the better part of
      valour and made a runner.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It wasn't until she'd sped through the Leaky Cauldron, earning a
      bunch of startled looks, out onto the busy London street, gotten
      several blocks away (almost getting hit by a city bus in the
      process) and into a crowded shopping mall that she let herself
      stop. She sagged against a wall, panting for breath and trembling
      as the adrenaline coursed through her system. Her bad leg spasmed
      wildly and she nearly collapsed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Jesus, Mary and Joseph," she muttered. That was <em class="calibre7">way</em>
      too close. She hadn't expected to see a bunch of Death Eaters in
      the middle of a book store, but, on thinking about it, why the heck
      hadn't she? Bad guys needed something to read now and then, too,
      and they'd already been exonerated by what passed for the wizarding
      world's justice system, so they were free to wander in public. She
      hoped nobody'd snapped a photo of her face, though, for all she
      knew, Alecto could just use magic to produce lifelike pictures of
      her from memory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you all right, ma'am?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona's eyes jolted open, and she reached reflexively for where
      her nightclub would have been hanging in normal circumstances.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A middle-aged woman with a heavy French accent pushing a baby
      carriage looked at her in concern. Fiona realized that she was
      still wearing her robes, and dozens of people were staring at her.
      She'd chosen the public place so that the wizards wouldn't follow
      her there, but hadn't fully considered how strange she'd look to
      the nonmagical residents in the city.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She swallowed, tasting adrenaline, muttered something about a
      fancy dress party, and staggered back into the street. She had to
      lean against walls and streetlights to compensate for her bad
      leg.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Stupid. She'd been stupid. She should have worn a mask in the
      raid on London like the Firearms unit had. She should have a better
      disguise when she went to Diagon Alley. She shouldn't have made
      such a scene when they found her, but instead denied it until the
      authorities arrived. She shouldn't have looked back into the
      bookstore as she'd left. She should have worn less conspicuous
      clothing under her robes, so she could take them off and blend in
      with the rest of the city. She should have had a getaway car
      waiting for her outside the Cauldron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona tried to hail a cab, hoping that all this wouldn't come
      back to bite her later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then she bloody well broke my bloody wand!" Alecto practically
      shrieked. "I want her <em class="calibre7">flayed</em>, Malfoy! I want her
      <em class="calibre7">skin</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're <em class="calibre7">certain</em> it was the same woman?" Lucius asked
      calmly. "It was dark that night, in London. There was a lot going
      on. It would be easy to make mistakes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was her," Amycus said, holding a bloody handkerchief to his
      nose. "Remember those fancy kung-fu moves she pulled on Selwyn? She
      did the same to us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This was right before Alecto accidentally killed him, was it?"
      Lucius asked. Merlin, but that whole night had been a string of
      fiascos.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alecto bristled. "She threw him in the way of my spell. It
      wasn't my fault."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you're saying that an unarmed Muggle woman managed to best
      both of you, <em class="calibre7">and</em> get your wands?" Lucius asked. "Were I in
      your position, I would <em class="calibre7">strongly</em> reconsider what you
      'remember' happening before telling the Dark Lord. He is not as…
      merciful as I."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was injured," Amycus said. "My leg."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was informed that the best healers in the country had given
      you a clean bill of health," Lucius said. "There's nothing wrong
      with your leg, Amycus. Any pain you feel is purely imaginary."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amycus scowled, but said nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius leaned back in his chair. "I had been lead to believe
      that Lockhart had taken care of the Muggles that survived that
      encounter," he said. He'd been as surprised as anyone to see
      Lockhart taking credit for the Muggles' actions, but had decided to
      play along with it at the time. "But I now see that I was… mistaken
      to leave this matter in the hands of one outside of our little
      family."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I <em class="calibre7">want</em> her, Malfoy," Alecto said again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Ministry made detailed reports of any incident that their
      personnel were involved in that resulted in violence, particularly
      when there were deaths. He felt certain that the Muggle law
      enforcement would do similarly. The records would be kept in a
      reasonably secure location, but that was no matter. A few threats
      here and Imperiuses there, and he could get through any amount of
      security. After that, it would be a simple matter to find out which
      Muggle personnel had been involved in the raid and track them down
      at their homes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You'll get her," Lucius said.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
