<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 70: SD 17: Stones and Windows, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s33" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 17: Stones and Windows</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">It was evening, just after the Sorting Ceremony, and Milo lay
      against a tree by the lake. Milo had arrived at the tailing end of
      it, missing most of the actual Sorting, but hearing what passed for
      Snape's speech.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo heard soft footsteps approaching, making quiet crunching
      noises in the frosty earth. He didn't look up; he knew who it
      was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought I might find you out here," Hannah said. "Your hidden
      classroom was blown to pieces at some point. I'm guessing it was a
      surprise left for you by… the other you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo nodded. At some point last year, Riddle had apparently left
      <em class="calibre7">Explosive Runes</em> on the door to the classroom behind the
      giant tree that Milo usually used when he needed a secret area.
      Frankly, with his hit points being the way they were, Milo was
      lucky to have survived.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mind if I sit down?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shrugged, fingering a smooth, round stone in his hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whacha got there?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Despite his mood, Milo flashed a quick grin. "Halfling skipping
      rock."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ooookay…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Halfling culture is inexplicably built around throwing rocks,"
      Milo said. "They get all kinds of random racial bonuses to it, and
      a handful of race-specific feats. I bet, if I looked long enough, I
      could find a Halfling-only Prestige Class built entirely around
      throwing rocks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah settled into the grass. She'd learned that there was no
      point interrupting him when he was doing one of his Milo-y
      things.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All of this is to say that when Halflings say that a rock is a
      good skipping rock, they know what they're about." Milo held the
      rock up into the light. "This one was probably ground down into an
      aerodynamically-perfect shape by Halfling children over the course
      of six months, or something. I found it in my sister's Belt of
      Hidden Pouches."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He gave it one last look, then flung it out over the lake at a
      shallow angle. It hit the water heavily and sank with an
      anti-climactic splash.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or maybe it was just an ordinary pebble Relkin picked up one
      day," Milo said. He coughed awkwardly. "I probably should have
      checked if that was magical before I threw it," he said ruefully.
      "For all I know, that was a Philosopher's Stone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, Milo," Hannah said. "I know sometimes that when I'm in a
      lousy mood, I want nothing more than to sit by myself and throw
      rocks into a lake. But late as you were, you heard what Headmaster
      Snape said at the Sorting Ceremony: we're not supposed to leave the
      castle. There's Dementors patrolling the grounds. That one on the
      Hogwarts Express did a real number on you. I think it focused on us
      because…" she lowered her voice. "I think they could… smell, or
      sense or whatever… <em class="calibre7">him</em> on us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who says I'm in a lousy mood?" Milo asked, throwing another
      rock, this time an ordinary one, into the lake. It didn't skip,
      either. "Who says I even <em class="calibre7">get</em> moods? And if a Dementor
      <em class="calibre7">does</em> try something, I'll kick its shrouded ass from here
      back to Azkaban. I'm a Wizard. Not just any Wizard—a
      <em class="calibre7">Conjurer</em>. Of cheap tricks, no less."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Hannah said. "Because you never compensate for your own
      insecurities with reckless bravado."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo didn't have much to say to that, so he threw another rock
      into the lake instead without any more success than the others.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine," Hannah said. She sat there silently next to him for a
      few minutes, watching him ineffectually throw rocks into the water.
      "You need to give it more spin," she said, finally.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Spin. Use your index finger to spin it as you throw." She
      picked up a rock, seemingly at random, and flung it effortlessly
      into the lake. It skipped three times. "I actually like my skipping
      rocks slightly oblong, because it's easier to spin them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shook his head. "Technique won't make any difference for
      me." He paused. "Well, that's not true. It's more accurate to say
      that I <em class="calibre7">can't</em> improve my technique without fighting and
      increasing in level. It's just a die roll, my Dexterity bonus, and
      half my level."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just try it," Hannah said. "Here, use this one." She passed him
      a muddy, irregular rock. The ancient Halfling rock-skipping gurus
      of old would roll in their graves looking at it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo rolled his eyes, but took it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Get down low, close to the water. You want it to hit as close
      to parallel to the surface as you can."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know, I know," Milo said. "It's not like it's grapple
      mechanics."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And spin it," Hannah reminded him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was spinning it," Milo lied. He adjusted his grip the way
      Hannah showed him, bent down low, and flung it out over the
      water.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It skipped once, half-heartedly, then dropped into the water
      without ceremony.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But it <em class="calibre7">did</em> skip.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo could only see one side of Hannah's face, but he felt it
      safe to extrapolate, using his arcane knowledge and unparalleled
      intellect, that she was smirking on the other side, too. "Could
      have just been that I rolled a 20," Milo muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh-huh," Hannah said. "So, do you want to talk about it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Talk about what?" Milo asked. "I'm a soulless construct. A
      collection of bonuses and penalties. I am without emotion." He
      skipped another rock. "And they'd only hold me back, even if I had
      them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know that's not true," Hannah said. "So I'm not going to
      dignify the point with an argument."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once more, Milo didn't have a heck of a lot to say, so he threw
      another rock into the lake. This time, he skipped twice. Hannah did
      the same, though her rock didn't so much skip as glide along the
      surface of the lake for a few meters before finally sinking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They thought I summoned the Basilisk," Milo said eventually. He
      didn't need to say who 'they' were.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Hannah said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They thought that maybe the <em class="calibre7">Prophet</em> got a few things
      right."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah simply nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They think I'm dangerous," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah smiled. "All of those things are true, you realize. You
      <em class="calibre7">did</em> summon the Basilisk—unwillingly. The <em class="calibre7">Prophet</em>
      was right about a <em class="calibre7">few</em> things—again, mostly things you did
      unwillingly or accidentally. And you <em class="calibre7">are</em> dangerous." Milo
      had a brief memory of blood-red snow, but pushed it away. "You're
      among the most dangerous people in the world—top ten, top hundred
      at the least—to the <em class="calibre7">bad guys</em>. To people that want to
      destabilize the world, to persecute Muggles, Muggleborns,
      half-bloods, and anyone else who gets in their way. To people who
      hurt innocents because it's convenient. You're so dangerous, I bet
      you keep them up at night with a cold sweat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Didn't stop You-Know-Who from killing me," Milo muttered.
      "After using my power for evil. Maybe Hermione was right."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You <em class="calibre7">came back</em>," Hannah said. "You <em class="calibre7">conquered
      death</em>. Nobody's done that before. <em class="calibre7">Ever</em>. You-Know-Who
      tried to do that his entire life, and it didn't work. Not
      <em class="calibre7">really</em>. And that probably scares him more than anything.
      But that's not what this is about, is it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo sighed. "They didn't trust me, Hannah. Harry, Ron,
      Hermione. They didn't talk to me. They didn't even look at me." He
      picked up a rock to skip, but set it back down instead. "It's so
      stupid. Why should I care? My friends believed the overwhelming
      mountain of evidence over… I don't know. Their unfounded, vague
      feelings of faith in me. Why should I be surprised by that? It's
      perfectly <em class="calibre7">rational</em>." He laughed grimly. "Wait till they
      find out I'm harbouring—" he glanced around, remembering Hannah's
      warning about Dementors. "Well, you know." He sighed. "Gods, I
      sound like such a Hufflepuff."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's worse things in life than Hufflepuffs," Hannah said.
      "You want a piece of advice?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah ignored him. "Don't stew on it. Hermione tends to follow
      her brain over her gut, and she's had half a year to convince Harry
      and Ron. She can be very persuasive. But even she'll come around
      eventually, and they'll follow. You're not a bad person, and
      they'll see that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're probably right," Milo agreed, though he knew it would
      probably take a while for that to sink in completely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, we should probably go inside," Hannah said. "Snape's just
      looking for excuses to dock points from Gryffindors, and that's not
      even getting to the fact that a Dementor could stumble across us at
      any minute."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good idea," Milo agreed. Just as he turned to leave, however, a
      thought struck him. "One second," Milo said. He picked up the most
      ungainly rock he could find—it was almost as big as his head, and
      lumpier than a troll's nose. It was probably the least
      aerodynamically-sound shape possible. "<em class="calibre7">True Strike</em>," he
      muttered, then flung it over his shoulder behind him as he walked
      towards the castle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Splash-splash-splash-splash-splash-splash-splash…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cheater," Hannah laughed, and followed him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona couldn't sleep.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was back in her own flat and out of cheap motels, but
      somehow, the normality of her own bed seemed unfamiliar. Sprocket,
      her enormously fat calico cat, was cutting off circulation to her
      lower body and purring like a chainsaw. Sprocket had no conception
      of the secret wizarding underground community that flagrantly
      flouted the laws of the land, with its secret laws and secret
      courts and secret police. And its own secret underground criminal
      organization of black-robed, Ringwraith-wannabe, 'dark' wizards and
      witches. As if the regular, memory-stealing witches and wizards
      weren't bad enough.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her answering machine had been full of messages when she'd
      returned. The higher-ups down at the station wanted to talk about
      how she missed her mandatory counselling. Her mother wanted to know
      what she'd been up to lately, and why she hadn't called. Her
      landlord said her rent was past due.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona rolled over, sending a disgruntled Sprocket rolling onto
      her back. The cat shot her a dirty look and sauntered off out of
      the bedroom, likely in search of any food Fiona might have left
      lying around the evening before.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">None of it made any sense. She wasn't even sure why she was
      still digging at this. Once, she might have harboured illusions
      that she could simply find whoever was at the top of the little
      wizard community, cuff them, bring them round to the station, and
      be rid of all of this. But there didn't seem to be any one person
      who was the lynchpin of the secret underground magical world. It
      was systemic. Undefeatable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even if she did manage to arrest the people responsible for
      taking her memories, she couldn't very well <em class="calibre7">charge</em> them
      with anything. Nothing that would stand up in court, anyway. And if
      it miraculously did, no prison could hold a wizard or witch,
      anyway. Even without a wand, there was nothing stopping one of
      their mates from just popping in, snatching them, and popping out
      again with no-one the wiser. Or mind-controlling the prison guards.
      Or the judge and jury, for that matter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not that it would ever get that far, because this whole Sirius
      Black thing revealed that the Muggle government was co-operating
      with the wizarding one at some level. God, she hated that word.
      <em class="calibre7">Muggle</em>. Why did non-magical people need a special name?
      They were just <em class="calibre7">ordinary</em> people.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona rolled over again to try to get comfortable, but only
      succeeded in tangling her face in her hair, which was getting way
      too long. When was the last time she'd got it cut? For that matter,
      when was the last time she'd <em class="calibre7">washed</em> it?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A faint creak pulled her out of her reverie, followed by a sort
      of quiet mechanical noise that Fiona didn't immediately recognize.
      She frowned, and pulled herself out of bed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sprocket?" she murmured.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—certain this is the correct hovel?" asked a voice like silk
      slick with oil. Fiona froze—<em class="calibre7">someone was in her flat</em>. The
      sound earlier must have been her lock being jimmied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(And they called it a hovel. Who the heck <em class="calibre7">does</em>
      that?)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Number 36, master. Just as it says in the Muggles' file," said
      a second voice, this one low and raspy. Well, that settled any
      doubt in her mind about who it might be: wizards. Were they here to
      take her memories again?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona thought about her options. There were only two ways out of
      her bedroom—the door to her little living room-slash-kitchen, and
      the window to the street, three storeys below.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What was that?" said a third voice, this one she <em class="calibre7">did</em>
      recognize: Alecto Carrow. The witch who'd spotted her in Diagon
      Alley earlier.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Meaning these <em class="calibre7">weren't</em> Ministry goons, and they
      <em class="calibre7">weren't</em> after her memories. Fiona crept towards the
      window. She'd only barely got away from these guys last time, and
      she didn't want to risk it again—especially not with anyone who
      they deemed worth calling 'master.' <em class="calibre7">Probably this Malfoy guy
      that that kid told me about</em>, she thought to herself. Was this
      revenge for the taxman thing?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was just a cat," said the oily voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The faint light shining through the crack in her bedroom door
      flashed red, and for a moment, Fiona's blood turned to ice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sprocket. She'd gone into the living room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Red means stun, right?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She thought of her stupid, fat, needy cat in the hands of those
      lunatics turned her fear into anger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">It'd</em> better <em class="calibre7">mean stun.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's a second room," said the one with the oily voice. "She
      must be in there. Alecto, stay here and cover the door."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona frantically fiddled with her window's latch, trying to get
      it to open. The blasted thing was older than dirt, and had been
      painted over at some point in the past.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She heard footsteps approach her door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Finally, the latch gave, and Fiona shoved the window open. The
      nighttime chill cut through her flannel pajamas</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you hear that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona practically leapt through the open window, grabbing the
      brick sill with her cold hands. She'd originally intended to climb
      down to the street, or even jump, but one glance downwards put paid
      to that plan. It was solid concrete below her (save for a spiky,
      ironwork-and-brick fence, which was less than heartening) and,
      aside from the little decorative brick rim running between the
      windows of her flat, there was nothing to grab onto to climb down.
      Besides, she wasn't about to leave her cat in the hands of these
      psychos. Instead, she shimmied along the crumbly brick sill towards
      the window in her living room. Behind her, she heard the door to
      her bedroom open fully as the two wizards entered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She risked a glance up through the window, and saw a robed,
      masked witch—presumably Alecto—holding a still Sprocket by one paw,
      poking her with her wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona took a deep breath, shifted her weight entirely onto one
      quickly-numbing hand, and knocked once on the window with the other
      before grabbing the sill again. She heard a soft thump that she
      guessed was Sprocket being put down (Fiona winced internally at her
      poor choice of words), before realizing that she'd staked her
      entire chances of survival on a move inspired by a comic book she'd
      read when she was thirteen, and was just contemplating how
      <em class="calibre7">mind-bogglingly stupid</em> that was, and if it was too late to
      risk the fall, when the window opened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alecto stuck her head out with her wand held out in front of
      her, which just went to show that dark witches didn't read nearly
      enough Batman as kids.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona shifted her left hand into a more secure position by
      reaching through the now-open window and grabbing the ledge on the
      other side, then yanked Alecto by the front of her robes with her
      right hand and pulled as hard as she could, transferring as much of
      her weight as she could to the masked witch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alecto yelped as she tumbled out the window. Fiona let her
      drop—not that she had a lot of choice; if she'd held on she'd just
      get pulled down with her—and climbed herself up into her living
      room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She sprinted forwards, scooping Sprocket up from where she lay
      on the floor, and out into the hall. Out of the corner of her eye,
      she saw a bright green flash, but seeing as how she didn't
      immediately die, she ignored it and kept running. She heard
      footsteps behind her, but didn't waste time looking around. Either
      they'd catch her or they wouldn't, but either way, she had no
      intention of slowing down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On her way to the stairs—there wasn't a snowball's chance that
      she was going to wait for a lift with a pair of bloody evil
      sorcerers after her—she pulled the fire alarm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Stale water poured down around her to put out the imaginary
      fires as she ran down the spiralling stairs. More importantly for
      her plans, however, were the dozens of panicked Muggles (there was
      that word again—it was creeping into her own mind) who came running
      out of their rooms in varying states of undress, some clutching
      valuables, others still pulling on dressing gowns. Fiona wasn't the
      only one with a pet—one couple was trying to get their confused
      golden retriever to follow them outside—though she <em class="calibre7">was</em> the
      only one with twenty-five pounds of soaking wet, catatonic cat
      clutched to her chest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By the time Fiona reached the exit, she was already part of a
      growing mob of people fleeing the building. Secrecy seemed to be
      pretty important to these wizarding types, so she guessed her
      pursuers wouldn't try to make a move on her while she was in such a
      public gathering.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was no sign of Alecto on the ground outside, so Fiona
      guessed she'd either landed in such a way as to be able to walk
      away, or had used magic somehow to slow her descent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From there, it was a simple matter to disappear into the night,
      cat held tight to her chest, shivering in her soaked clothes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo sat by himself in the Gryffindor Common Room with Thamior's
      really incredibly gross, bound-in-human-flesh spellbook in front of
      him. Everyone else had long since gone to sleep, but Milo still had
      work to do. Mordy sat across from him on the table, listening
      intently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is going to be a problem," Milo said. "The spells in this
      book are, with a few exceptions, pretty much garbage. And touching
      it makes my Alignment shiver."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So why don't you make a new one?" Mordy asked. He already knew
      the answer, of course, but he understood that his job right now was
      to be a sounding board (without sounding bored). This was by far
      better than most jobs wizards found for their familiars (which
      tended to be triggering traps from afar, or delivering close-range
      spells to dangerous monsters), so he decided to throw himself at it
      wholeheartedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shuddered. "It takes a solid twenty-four hours to copy a
      spell from one book to another," he said. "And a hundred pieces of
      gold <em class="calibre7">per spell level</em>. And it takes <em class="calibre7">weeks</em> to
      research spells not present in the book. I don't have time for
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you get two free spells added to your book every time you
      level up," Mordy said. "There's always the—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ugh," Milo said. "Not the Dementor plan." Keeping a trapped
      Dementor to bump Milo down to just below the level up threshold in
      a controlled environment, so he could repeatedly level and
      de-level, was just too dangerous for the payoff. Not to mention
      that it would be hellish to experience.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't see what the big problem is," Mordy said. "As long as
      your old spellbook still exists—which it does, wherever it is—you
      can just use your Uncanny Forethought to cast spells from it
      spontaneously. And there's always Spontaneous Divination, which
      lets you switch any spell you have prepared for a Divination spell,
      whether or not it's in your book."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Divination spells won't fight off dark wizards," Milo said.
      "And Uncanny Forethought only works a handful of times per day.
      It's not enough." No villain Milo had ever before encountered had
      been low enough to take his spellbook away from him, so he hadn't
      really had any precautions in place for this event. It just
      <em class="calibre7">wasn't done</em>. "Maybe I should start tattooing spells to my
      body," Milo said. "I think there were rules for that
      somewhere."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Complete Arcane</em>, if I'm not mistaken," Mordy added
      helpfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Milo said. What were the rules for that again? He
      really should have taken the opportunity to drop by a bookstore in
      Myra (city of Light! City of <em class="calibre7">Magic</em>!) to purchase the most
      recent set of splatbooks available. The great western coasts near
      the City were dotted with colleges and towers full of Wizards
      working round-the-clock to push back the limits of the known rules
      of the universe. One of them, somewhere, was probably working hard
      to publish an updated version of the way tower shields, hiding, and
      cover interacted after Milo forced the hand of the gods in his raid
      on the palace.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you probably don't want to do that," Mordy cautioned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why not?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Werrrrrllllll," Mordy said. "Let's just say, for the sake of
      argument, that You-Know-Who, having lived in your brain and knowing
      your weaknesses, chose to find and destroy your spellbook to keep
      you from refreshing your spells every day. If the spells were in a
      book, well, he'd just burn the book. But if it was written into
      your own skin…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…ugh," Milo said. "Consider your point made. Any day in which
      no-one tries to flay me is a good day." He sighed. "If only I could
      figure out how Riddle made that sentient book thingy. Then I could
      have a spellbook that could reconfigure itself into whatever spells
      I wanted. That would be <em class="calibre7">so cool</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Might as well wish to be able to do magic with a wand," Mordy
      said. "I think you'll just have to live with Thamior's spellbook
      for now, until you can figure out a way to locate what he did with
      your old one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo resisted the urge to bash his forehead against the table.
      De-levelled and without a spellbook? "Maybe I had it backwards," he
      said. "Maybe <em class="calibre7">this</em> is the afterlife. I died, and I'm in
      Wizard Hell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cheer up, boss," Mordy said. "Look at the silver lining. You
      can take this opportunity to more carefully think about your
      choices you made when you levelled up. How many people can say they
      got to hit Level Nine twice?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shrugged. "I guess I could probably rethink my choice of
      Feat," he admitted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…and Prestige Class?" Mordy suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why would I do that?" Milo asked. "Rainbow Servant is
      fantastic. No prerequisites worth noting, no lost caster
      levels—remember, the text overrides the table, and despite what the
      table says (and the designers intended), the <em class="calibre7">text</em> clearly
      states you get spellcasting <em class="calibre7">every level</em>—and I get a couple
      random abilities. Nothing fantastic until tenth level, of course,
      but practically <em class="calibre7">anything</em> is better than going straight
      Wizard. A bonus Item Creation or Metamagic Feat every five levels
      does <em class="calibre7">not</em> count as a Class Feature. Wizards don't get
      <em class="calibre7">anything</em> else."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mordy coughed, which was quite a feat in-and-of-itself, seeing
      as how rats, generally speaking, can't. "Nothing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope," Milo shrugged. "Nothing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mordy rolled his eyes. "Oh, <em class="calibre7">come on</em>. Your
      Familiar—i.e., <em class="calibre7">me—</em>gets new abilities if you level up in
      Wizard!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pffft," Milo said. "Better armour class? If it seriously comes
      down to that, we're already both dead. And what else—oh, yeah.
      <em class="calibre7">Spell Resistance</em>. Need I remind you that I'm the <em class="calibre7">only
      person in this entire universe</em> that your Spell Resistance
      would protect you against? Which conflicts with the only other
      thing, that being the ability for me to cast <em class="calibre7">Scrying</em> on
      you for free now and then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't forget the ability to talk to other rats," Mordy
      added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo rolled his eyes in a manner eerily similar to how Mordy had
      done a moment ago. "The only other rat around here is Scabbers,"
      Milo said. "And I can't imagine you'd want to hear anything
      <em class="calibre7">he</em> has to say."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't make me order you to go patrolling for remaining hidden
      <em class="calibre7">Explosive Runes</em>," Milo threatened. Mordy sighed, and
      dropped the issue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She got away," Lucius Malfoy said. It wasn't a question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He surveyed the crowd outside. In a few minutes, the Muggles
      authorities would arrive, and they'd search the building.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I bloody well <em class="calibre7">know</em> she bloody well bloody got
      a-bloody-way," Alecto muttered. "She threw me out the bloody
      window!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She took her cat with her, too," Avery added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shame," Alecto said, hefting an iron poker from the fireplace.
      "Amycus's guitar—" As she spoke, she smashed a china teapot sitting
      on the mantle on the off chance that it was an antique. "—needs new
      strings."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think it may be safe to say that we underestimated her,"
      Lucius admitted. "Amycus—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm Alecto," Alecto corrected, gathering as many treasured
      family photos as she could find and dumping them into the
      fireplace, which she lit with her wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Actually, I meant to say Avery. My apologies." Lucius said.
      <em class="calibre7">Why must all of my followers have names that begin with the
      same letter? I'd bet Dumbledore never has this problem.</em> "Would
      you search this… residence… for anything that looks like a diary or
      notebook?" Lucius frowned. The Ministry would have done that the
      last time they'd erased her memory, as would Lockhart. "Actually,
      instead, locate any Muggle device that has a purpose you don't
      recognize and pile it somewhere out of the water. We'll Apparate it
      out with us when we're done." It stood to reason that the usual
      tricks to keep her memory erased hadn't worked. She had to have
      done something that was beyond the capabilities of the Obliviators
      to understand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er… of course," Avery said, clearly not understanding, but
      complying nevertheless.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alecto located a filing cabinet full of what she guessed was
      critically important, difficult-to-replace documentation—things
      like tax records, insurance information, identification, a birth
      certificate—and set that on fire, too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, Alecto, <em class="calibre7">do</em> stop that," Lucius said. "It's
      unprofessional."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm going to <em class="calibre7">skin her alive</em>," Alecto muttered,
      smashing some sort of martial arts trophy into dust with the iron
      rod. "Then I'll give her Polyjuice and turn her back into herself
      <em class="calibre7">so I can do it again</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alecto—" Lucius frowned. Did Polyjuice work that way? He'd have
      to write Snape and ask.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She threw me out a window!" Alecto snarled. "So don't tell me
      not to have a little revenge!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius rolled his eyes. "Alecto, there's no <em class="calibre7">point</em> in
      destroying her possessions—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alecto rounded on Lucius, teeth clenched, ready to fight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—because we're burning this place to the ground when we're
      done," Lucius finished. There were a few marginally pragmatic
      reasons for this, such as covering their tracks and inconveniencing
      his enemy. But none of those were the reason why he was doing
      this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Alecto paused. A series of emotions flashed across her
      face, not all of which Lucius recognized, and, of those, some of
      which he wished he had not. "Good."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The simple fact of it was that, with Bellatrix around again, he
      needed the Death Eaters on his side. An occasional act of arson now
      and again was a small price to pay to ensure Alecto's loyalty.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We'll find her," Lucius said. "But for now, we'll go to the
      next Muggle on the list."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
