<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 73: SD 20: Auld Reeky, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s36" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 20: Auld Reeky</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">One might assume that, as quite possibly the wealthiest man in
      magical Britain, Lucius Malfoy would have a very large vault of
      gold, silver, and possibly even jewels at Gringotts. The goblin
      bank was the safest place in the world, bar none, to keep items of
      value, such as gold, silver, and possibly even jewels. After all,
      many of the wealthiest families possessed (or in many cases, used
      to possess) such hoards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius Malfoy had many dealings with the goblins of Gringotts,
      and in fact, he <em class="calibre7">did</em> retain a very large vault in their
      establishment. They provided many useful services for a nominal
      fee, such as handling the tricky business of converting wizarding
      gold into Muggle fiat currencies and transferring money safely and
      conveniently between different accounts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius had been told that the Malfoy vault was cavernous, that
      it boasted the greatest protections, both magical and mundane, that
      the world had ever seen. That any would-be burglar would find
      themselves in a state of nature with a delightfully Hobbesian
      flavour. All of that might even be true, though Lucius couldn't
      care less. He'd not once visited the Malfoy vault, and had no
      intention of wasting precious time doing so. None of it mattered,
      as the goblins' promised security was an illusion. Not that they
      lied—goblins <em class="calibre7">never</em> lie—but rather they were truthfully and
      earnestly answering the wrong questions. Lucius had no doubt that
      any erstwhile thieves of his vault would be burned by dragon fire,
      poisoned by deadly darts, drowned in acid, or befall some similar
      nasty, brutish and short existence. That much was true.
      Nevertheless, only a fool would keep any amount of gold, silver,
      and <em class="calibre7">especially</em> jewels there. Before doubting, first
      consider the example of Lily and James Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Potters, as Lucius understood, had one such vault, replete
      with requisite gold, silver, and, yes, jewels. They had hidden away
      their vast fortunes in the goblin bank to provide for their son in
      case of the worst. This, simply put, was idiocy. When William the
      Conqueror sailed to England, did King Harold lock up all of his
      swords and spears to keep them safe from the Normans? When the
      Luftwaffe poured fire and ruin on London, did Churchill squirrel
      away his Muggle flying machines for a rainy day?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Potters viewed Gringotts as a parking garage; Malfoy as a
      superhighway. If it held so much as a single stationary galleon, it
      was because the rail carts, piled high with goblin gold, had
      dropped a coin or two as they zoomed straight through the
      cavernous, empty Malfoy vault and straight into the vaults of his
      backers, cronies, and investments.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sort of idiot who thought that wars were fought by dangerous
      wizards and legendary wands probably thought themselves clever for
      thinking that every part of Quidditch was a distraction, save for
      the seekers and the Golden Snitch. In truth, Quidditch had very
      little to do with Quaffles, the Snitch, or even with the players
      themselves. Quidditch, like wars, was fought with money. The best
      managers and owners were those that bought the best broomsticks and
      the best players. They paid for these advantages by pressuring
      taxpayers to build bigger Quidditch arenas by which to further
      squeeze hapless fans of both teams. Whether the game was won or
      lost, tickets were bought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Prior to the Wizarding War, Lucius had bought the land in Diagon
      Alley upon which Ollivanders' wand shop was built. The previous
      owner was a delightful old Squib who owed Amycus Carrow a king's
      ransom in gambling debts. Amycus had complained to Lucius over
      drinks one day about his difficulty in getting the money out of
      this destitute old man, so Lucius, ever the hero, swooped in to
      save the day. He bought the land for a thousand galleons, thus
      allowing the Squib to pay Amyucus and further cementing his loyalty
      to the Malfoys. More importantly, Lucius now had <em class="calibre7">de facto</em>
      control over the greatest wandmaker in magical Britain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When people started disappearing in the night and the Dark Mark
      appeared over their houses, the wizards and witches of Britain got
      nervous. And, as is only natural, nervous people tend to arm
      themselves. The Ministry, under Lucius's urging, recommended in the
      name of public safety that all adults purchase two or three extra
      wands and keep them around their house in case of attack. Wand
      sales skyrocketed, so Lucius simply raised Ollivanders' rent
      accordingly. The eccentric wandmaker worked three hours for every
      one he had before the war, but it was Lucius who reaped the
      rewards. Lucius made some seven thousand galleons from this
      investment over the course of the war, with which he bought a pair
      of Italian leather loafers and a controlling interest in each of
      <em class="calibre7">Wizarding Weekly</em>, the <em class="calibre7">Diagon Times</em>, and the
      <em class="calibre7">Owl News</em>. Lucius shuttered all three the next morning,
      leaving the <em class="calibre7">Daily Prophet</em> as the only major newspaper left
      in the country, which he also controlled. With a monopoly on all
      sources of information, he hiked subscription fees while also doing
      everything he could to use the outlet to spread fear and confusion
      (which incidentally sold very well).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The good people of magical Britain—each one now sufficiently
      armed to fight all the hordes of Genghis Khan—were too scared to
      leave their homes, giving Lucius' masked colleagues free run of the
      streets. If it weren't for the Dark Lord's surprise disappearance
      after the Potters' deaths, victory would have been assured. As it
      stood, Lucius Malfoy came out of the war as one of the most
      powerful men in the world. The part of the world that mattered, at
      least. With this one project, a small example of Lucius's overall
      contributions to the war, he'd used his money to buy loyalty from
      the Carrows, spread fear and misinformation, and profit from his
      enemies' attempts to protect themselves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All of this to say, Lucius was very, <em class="calibre7">very</em> angry as he
      signed the money order to divert funds from essential graft and
      bribery to instead convert to Muggle pounds with which to pay the
      leeches at the Revenue. Such was the force of his anger that the
      tip of his quill nearly penetrated the thin parchment as he dotted
      the 'i' in his signature. Taking a deep breath to calm himself, he
      folded the envelope and tied it to the waiting owl.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Someone would <em class="calibre7">pay</em> for this, and it wouldn't be in
      pounds or galleons.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius glanced at the ticking grandfather clock and cursed under
      his breath. He was late for another ridiculous, late-night woodland
      meeting. He took one more breath, mentally said goodbye to such
      civilized conveniences as indoor heating and insulation, then
      Disapparated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Their table was next to an enormous floor-to-ceiling window
      underlooking the imposing hill upon which Castle Edinburgh sat. It
      was far and away the best table in the house, and Fiona had to give
      an elderly couple a Look to prevent them from stealing it while she
      put in their order. Cops, on the whole, were quite well-suited to
      giving such Looks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The children, Milo and Hannah, sat facing the window, their feet
      barely touching the ground. Fiona placed a steel card with the
      number '8' on the table and sat across from them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Fiona was even younger than they were now, her dad used to
      sit her right where Milo now sat after school while he worked on
      his book. She would read over his shoulder and complain that if
      <em class="calibre7">she</em> were in his story she'd do things <em class="calibre7">very
      differently</em> from his heroine, who seemed not to have read the
      parts where the villain told his minions his evil plot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona realized she'd never seen the castle from this angle
      outside of winter; her dad, she suspected, came here on chilly days
      to save on heating.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona's smile faded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lucius Malfoy tried to kill me last night," she said bluntly.
      "And he's been gunning for my co-workers." It felt <em class="calibre7">wrong</em>
      talking about such a serious subject with children, but Fiona was
      at her wit's end. It was Milo who had sent her chasing Lucius
      Malfoy in the first place—in fact, it was Milo who had clued her
      into the magical world at all for that matter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To her surprise, rather than reacting with fear, Milo's face
      broke into a broad grin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"First thing that happened when I came here is that Lucius tried
      to kill me," he said. "I think we have a lot in common."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona frowned. "Came here? From where?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah interjected. "As a half-blood, I think I can explain this
      one best. I've got one foot in each world, so to speak."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fair point," Milo nodded, gesturing for her to continue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're a Muggle," Hannah said bluntly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona nodded. "So I've come to understand," she said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm a wizard," Hannah said. "It seems to me that you know about
      the secret wizarding world, which people like me, but also people
      like Lucius Malfoy, are part of. Milo here… he's different. He's as
      different from me as you are."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona narrowed her eyes. "Different how?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's from another world," Hannah said. "But not another planet,
      as far as we can tell. More like… another universe. More Narnia
      than Star Trek, if that makes sense. Lucius Malfoy brought him
      here, but we think it was by mistake. We aren't sure why or how he
      did it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo coughed. "Actually, I have some theories on that," he said.
      "I can share them with you later."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona frowned. "So… Milo's not a wizard, then? I distinctly
      remember—okay, well, technically, my memory was erased, but I
      <em class="calibre7">read</em> a report of him doing magic at me. Which I
      wrote."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wellllllll," Hannah said. "That's where it gets…
      <em class="calibre7">complicated</em>. He actually <em class="calibre7">is</em> a wizard, but of a
      different kind. In much the same way that he's a human, but of a
      different kind. For example: I would be willing to bet that you
      could pull out a gun and shoot him in the chest and he'd barely
      even notice the first two or three bullets—but he's nevertheless
      physically incapable of swinging a punch more than once every six
      seconds. You should see him try to swat a mosquito; it's
      embarrassing. He just… stands there as it flutters about him
      shouting 'attack of opportunity!' whenever it tries to get away.
      Anyway, the details of how any why he's different aren't especially
      important; what matters is that ever since he got here, he's been
      fighting to take people like Lucius Malfoy down for good."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But he's a child," Fiona protested, her mind still reeling from
      the discovery that there were different <em class="calibre7">kinds</em> of wizards,
      as if she wasn't already struggling to keep up. "As are you. How
      did you get caught up in this mess? Why aren't there adults to take
      on this responsibility?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is war," Hannah said coolly. "We don't have the luxury of
      sitting on the sidelines just because we're underage.
      You-Know-Who—well, I'm <em class="calibre7">assuming</em> you know who—was brought
      down by a two-year-old. When we're talking about magic, there's
      more important things than age. There's still a lot we don't know
      about how Milo works, and Lucius knows even less. Our chief
      advantage is surprise."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona nodded. "That at least I can understand," she said. "The
      three of us—Muggle, wizard, and… different wizard—have very little
      idea about each other's' capabilities. So this Malfoy guy," Fiona
      said slowly, "why don't the wizard police just bring him in?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's rich and powerful," Hannah said bluntly. "Things aren't so
      different in the Muggle world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo nodded. "But he's taking a backseat now," he said. "The new
      BBEG is Tom Riddle. He's a clone or something of the spirit of
      You-Know-Who who was kept in a book, possessed me for most of last
      year, and eventually killed me with my own wand, which I mostly
      just kept around for show. Keeping a powerful weapon that everyone
      but you can use is kind of a liability, it turns out. Now he's on
      the loose, killing people left-and-right, and bossing around his
      old gang. He only looks a few years older than me," he added
      helpfully, "but in book years, he's fifty or sixty years
      older."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona spent awhile trying to process everything that Milo had
      just told him, and eventually capitulated. "Is this kind of thing
      normal for you?" she asked Hannah.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," she said. "Strange things, even by wizard standards, tend
      to happen when Milo is involved."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona nodded. <em class="calibre7">Eventually killed me with my own wand</em>…
      what a world she'd dived head-first into.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Someone placed two hot chocolates, an espresso, and a handful of
      pastries on the table. Milo's hand immediately shot for the almond
      croissant, and Fiona couldn't help but smile. Most of the time the
      strange boy more closely reminded her of a child soldier than
      anything else, but every now and again his age showed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh!" Milo said suddenly. "Before I forget." He slipped a brown
      paper package across the table. "This is for you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona reached for the package dubiously and pulled at the twine
      holding it together. Inside was a monogrammed napkin ('HW,'
      presumably stolen from Hogwarts) wrapped around something small and
      hard—a necklace, as it turned out, with a tiny silver shield
      dangling on it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's this?" she asked. "It looks expensive."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Amulet of Protection," Milo said. "Best not ask what exactly it
      protects against; I couldn't be picky with alignments."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…Alignments?" Fiona asked, eyeing the thing a little
      cautiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It protects against all mental-based magical attacks," he said.
      "Also, it provides minor defensive benefits against, er,
      angels."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Angels</em>?" Fiona choked. Hannah showed no reaction to
      Milo's casual confirmation of the existence of angels; whether this
      was because such knowledge was common among wizards or she was
      simply inured to Milo's strangeness was unclear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anyone Good, really. The important thing is the mental attacks.
      That means charms, enchantments, memory-affecting stuff,
      mind-control, you name it. Total immunity against all that trash.
      This particular one is guaranteed backdoor-free, accept no
      substitutes. Especially from the Ministry, because of, uh, reasons
      best not elaborated but that are <em class="calibre7">definitely</em> not my
      fault."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona felt her eyes widen. "Immunity against memory charms?" she
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about past attacks?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Depends," Milo said. "I'm not sure if wizarding memory charms
      are 'instantaneous' or 'permanent' duration—if they even
      <em class="calibre7">have</em> a duration."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona had the thing around her neck before Milo had finished his
      sentence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She sighed. "Nothing," she said. "It didn't come back."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shrugged. "Still, it'll help for next time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So…" Fiona said, fiddling with the silver shield. She didn't
      want to let on how disappointed she was. For a moment, just a
      moment, she thought she'd get her memories back. As impossible as
      it was, it seemed like with those memories, she might be able to
      return to her old life. "What do we do about it?" She felt
      decidedly uncomfortable deferring to someone less than half her
      age, but if she were brutally honest, she'd been in this alone for
      far too long. She needed someone to share as much of this burden
      with as she could.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do about what?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Malfoy. You-Know-Who."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shrugged. "Fight our way up his ranks one-by-one, defeating
      ever more powerful cronies and henchmen as we ourselves increase in
      capabilities until we bring down the Big Bad Evil Guy himself in a
      climactic showdown? Preferably in a volcano caldera or a collapsing
      tower. Or a big underwater crystal dome thingy, that's a
      classic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona blinked. Once you scratched the surface, that wasn't too
      different from common police tactics. Well, if what scratched said
      surface was Narsil. "Start at the street level and work our way
      up," she mused. "Get them to flip in exchange for a sweetheart
      deal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was envisioning searching their pockets for clues after the
      fact," Milo said in-between bites of croissant. "But I'm willing to
      compromise on the sequence of events."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona shook her head. "But we don't have any leverage," she
      said. "We don't have the jurisdiction to make an arrest, much less
      a plea bargain."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo snapped his fingers, and a small flame appeared in the air
      just above his thumb. It didn't have any visible wick or fuel.
      "Where we're going, we don't need jurisdiction," he said darkly.
      The fire vanished as quickly as it'd appeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona shook her head. "We play by the rules or I do this
      alone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo scoffed. "The wizarding government's in the palm of
      Riddle's hands. I should know, I put them there. And your Muggle
      government is, frankly, way out of its depth."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah coughed politely, having apparently been content to be
      silent to this point. "Milo, of all people, you should know that
      every rule provides an opportunity. Miss Smythe, we might not have
      the Muggle government behind us, but <em class="calibre7">the bad guys don't know
      that</em>. They know even less about how your rules work than I do,
      and I'm thirteen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona nodded. "I can work with this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where do we start?" Hannah asked. "You said from the bottom.
      Who's the bottom? Draco?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not with the kind of screen time he's gotten," Milo said. "I'd
      bet gold to copper that Draco's going down second-to-last. Probably
      after getting a never-explained eyepatch in a timeskip, and some
      black leather. Gotta have black leather."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alecto," Fiona said. It was almost a growl. "She stunned my
      cat. We take her first."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sounds good," Milo said. "I can find her with magic, but I'm
      already running a little light on spells. Maybe tomorrow?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We, uh, have a History of Magic quiz tomorrow," Hannah
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right, <em class="calibre7">school</em>. Saturday, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She could be anywhere," Fiona objected. "I can't just magic my
      way to London or Hogwarts or wherever at the drop of a hat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hrm. Neither can we," Milo said. "And I doubt we can fit all
      three of us on Hannah's broomstick."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have an idea," Hannah said slowly. "But I'm not sure you'll
      like it…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were eleven of them in all, standing in a frosty copse.
      Dark creepers and branches concealed them from the wider world and
      moonlit shadows of bare branches reached over them like skeletal
      branches. Puffs of breath escaped the narrow slits of their masks
      from beneath fur-lined hoods.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius was certain that they were a menacing sight, though he
      was uncertain who, exactly, they were intending to menace given the
      secretive nature of their meeting. They'd been standing in the cold
      autumn night for nearly fifteen minutes, feet and fingers slowly
      going numb, when the final members of their group arrived, making a
      total of thirteen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gentlemen," the all-too-familiar voice said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom Riddle, barely a teenager, wore only a light school uniform
      despite the cold. Others were rubbing their hands together or
      holding their arms close to their body for warmth, but Riddle had
      his hood thrown back and his hands bare like it was a breezy spring
      morning. The weather didn't seem to touch him at all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Behind him, Bellatrix Lestrange leaned against a tree twirling
      her wand between her fingers. She wore a heavy leather satchel at
      her side, a new affectation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius hated theatrics, but he gave credit where it was due:
      Riddle knew how to make an entrance. Whatever charm or potion he
      used to keep warm highlighted the difference between them, as mere
      mortals, and him, who had one foot in the door of immortality.
      Bellatrix's little wand trick was an unsubtle reminder that she had
      quite possibly the fastest wand hand in the modern world, and given
      that she was firmly on his side, they'd best not try anything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lestrange, returned from her imprisonment and later banishment,
      was a problem once thought solved. She represented something that
      was anathema to Lucius: true, selfless devotion. She had no levers,
      no weaknesses, no secrets and no higher ambitions beyond serving
      her master. In short, she, unlike the rest of the bunch, could
      never be bought. She was priceless to Riddle; worthless to
      Lucius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't have to all look so dour," Riddle smiled. "You should
      be joyous; we are on the eve of our final victory. The long war is
      nearing an end." It might have been a trick of the light, such as
      it was, or of Lucius' imagination, but Riddle's eyes seemed to
      flash red. "All I need now is the boy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The boy, Harry Potter?" suggested Amycus Carrow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, you <em class="calibre7">fool</em>! The boy, <em class="calibre7">Milo</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He'll be hiding in Hogwarts, my Lord," Bellatrix said. "Give me
      five expendable Death Eaters and I'll burn the place to
      cinders."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what of the professors?" Riddle asked. Lucius couldn't
      believe he was even entertaining such an absurd suggestion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's why I need five Death Eaters," Bellatrix said, sounding
      slightly exasperated. "With sufficient expendable distraction, I
      can kill them all, one-by-one. None will survive to protect the
      boy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My lord," Lucius said as politely as he could, "Severus Snape
      is Headmaster."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix rolled her eyes. "Fine, <em class="calibre7">fine</em>; I'll kill the
      rest and leave Severus. You're such a killjoy, Lucius."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I mean, perhaps a subtler touch will suffice," Lucius said.
      "Through Snape, we have significant leverage over the school.
      Perhaps we can arrange for the children to be left vulnerable."
      Lucius gave Amycus a gentle kick, his movements obscured by the
      darkness and his robes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hogsmeade," Amycus said on cue. "The kids go on field trips to
      the village. We can lie in wait, then <em class="calibre7">boom</em>. Grab them. No
      Hogwarts, no professors; there will be nothing to stop us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hold up," objected Crabbe senior. "I had to sign a, what's it
      called, content form for my son to go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," said Goyle senior. "A contempt form."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And that freak's got no parents," said Crabbe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," said Goyle. "He's got no mum or dad."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That <em class="calibre7">is</em> a problem," Lucius mused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Snape!" said Alecto. "As Headmaster, he can make such concerns
      go away."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What a great idea, Alecto," Lucius said. "What say you, my
      lord?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do it," Riddle said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Consider it done, my lord," Lucius bowed. When he looked up,
      Riddle was gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You've all lost your edge," Bellatrix snarled. "Except you,
      Lucius. You never had one to begin with." With a flash, she too,
      left, followed by other Death Eaters, one by one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the end, all who were left were Lucius, Crabbe, Goyle, and
      the Carrows.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excellently done, all of you," Lucius said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Boss…" Goyle said slowly. "You know, the other day, my basement
      pipe burst and flooded the house. I wouldn't bother you with it,
      but the missus says the carpets were ruined—you know, the nice
      Persian ones you got me? And the missus <em class="calibre7">loves</em> her Persian
      carpets…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alecto coughed. "And I've been going through wands at an
      alarming rate, and they don't come cheap, you know…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…and Junior wants a new broomstick," added Crabbe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Consider it taken care of," Lucius said. "All of you. Await
      instructions for the Hogsmeade raid. Your money is coming."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Without waiting for a reply, Lucius Apparated back to his manor.
      Confidence. That's what mattered. Nobody needed to know how thin he
      was stretched. <em class="calibre7">Confidence</em>.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
