<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Sirius Black and the Prisoners Dilemma - Sirius Black and the Prisoner's Dilemma Chapter 2: Dissimulation, part 1, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Sirius Black and the Prisoners Dilemma"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 2: Dissimulation, Pt 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Arc 1: Reconnaissance</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Polyjuice potion seems to be based on two separate 'save
      states'. The first save state activates the moment the item(hair,
      skin, or similar; any DNA source seems to be a sufficient marker)
      is taken from the target. At this point, the target's current
      physical condition, including any diseases(whether symptomatic or
      not) and fatigue, is saved. Mental condition, including emotions
      and any item shown to be part of the resurrection stone's recall,
      does not appear to be preserved at this stage.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The second 'save state' occurs when someone takes the
      potion. At this moment, all aspects of their condition are saved.
      When the potion's duration ends, their body returns to this
      original condition in a process that takes approximately 2 seconds
      and is uninterruptable. 'Polyfluis Reverso' appears to instantly
      activate this process.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Further investigation of the possibility of stasis using the
      potion is likely necessary.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">-Research log(Section IV: Bodily modifications), Tower of
      Hogwarts, June 1993</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">XxX</p>
      <p class="calibre6">August 25, 1993, 9 pm: 6 days before Hogwarts opening</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Colin Creevey looked to both sides nervously. Even though he had
      received a Hogwarts permit to work with Sapespeck over the summer
      in a limited capacity, he still couldn't shake the feeling that he
      was being watched. If any of his old muggle friends saw him, the
      consequences for the statute of secrecy could be horrendous. After
      reassuring himself that there was nobody near him, he laughed at
      his paranoia before readying his wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cognitio Mentis!" After the unpleasantness of last year,
      Flitwick had taken a month to find some charm that would allow for
      non-Parseltongue speakers to use the language. Eventually, he had
      found a substitute. The spell, originally intended for use by
      career duelists who wanted to refine their spells and tactics as
      well as avoid traps, allowed its caster to perceive all direct
      results of spells in their vicinity for a period of time, even
      those that were normally hidden. One of it's useful side effects
      was giving the caster the ability to understand Parseltongue coming
      from Sapespeck.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sapespeck!" A green point blinked into existence in front of
      him. He pulled a small pebble from his pocket and tossed it
      forward. The green speck flashed and emitted something that was
      both a sound and not at the same time, and the pebble stopped
      midair, dropping straight down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Colin grinned. Harry was right, the spell definitely could
      produce pressure waves. Now, for the next step. He dropped to his
      knees and picked up the pebble before standing and readying his
      wand again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sapespeck Maxima!" 16 specks flashed into existence in front of
      him, grouped into 3 pairs and one clump of ten. He lifted the
      pebble again, bringing it into line with the first pair. He wasn't
      quite sure about this part, but Harry had gotten really excited
      about something he kept calling a 'Magi-optic semaphore system
      lacking the downsides of the protean charm' and 'the wizarding
      world's ARPAnet'. As the pebble moved into the line formed by the
      first pair, the first speck of the pair flashed and hissed, causing
      a chain reaction in the rest. A few moments later, the second speck
      flashed at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Time for messsage: two partss in thoussand."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Colin smiled. It looked like that communication was definitely
      faster than sound, but slower than light. A lot of that could be
      processing bottlenecks, though. He'd need to work on that. As he
      lifted his wand to dispel the specks, he doubled over. It felt like
      a sword was stabbing him in the mind and cutting away at his
      identity. As he collapsed, eyes watering with the pain, a black dog
      seemed to materialize from the shadows before blurring into a man.
      The man walked over to him, looking with no small amount of pity at
      his writhing body.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, kid, I'm just going to say in advance that I wish it
      didn't have to be this way. If it's any consolation, this isn't
      personal. It's just business."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The last thing Colin saw before blacking out was the man pulling
      out a pair of scissors and cutting off a lock of his hair. Then his
      world went dark.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius dropped the young wizard's hair into a flask of
      Polyjuice, grinning as it turned a light blue. It looked like this
      one would taste reasonably good, unlike some of the other jobs he'd
      done. He downed the vial, grimacing as his body warped and shrunk
      until it matched that of the child currently passed out on the
      dirt. He never got used to that feeling, At least the potion
      preserved his magic and he didn't need to deal with some...he
      searched through the information his Legilimency had brought him to
      find the age of the child...some second year's magic and the
      Ministry's damned trace. That would be intolerable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a flick of his wand, Sirius' clothes became identical to
      that of the child. With another flick and a muttered word, the
      boy's body and the flask disappeared. He wouldn't need them for a
      while. A third cast changed the appearance of his wand to that of
      the boy's. Now for the fiddly part about stealing someone's
      identity. He concentrated, bringing the information he'd gleaned
      from Legilimency to the forefront of his mind. He lifted his wand,
      pointing it at his own temple while focusing on linking the
      duration of his next spell to that of the polyjuice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Confundus!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Colin blinked a few times. Why did his head hurt? And what was
      he doing? After a few seconds of confused looking around, he caught
      sight of the specks and relaxed. He was experimenting with
      Sapespeck tonight, of course. If his current fuzziness was anything
      to go by, he probably needed to get some sleep. The research could
      wait.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When he arrived back at his house, his father waved to him from
      his seat by the television.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How's your summer project going, Col? Anything you can tell
      Dennis about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not yet, Da." Colin smiled. His little brother was so eager to
      learn about magic, and Colin couldn't really blame him. When he had
      first found out about magic, he had been so excited that he'd
      almost...what? Why couldn't he remember what had happened?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His father noticed his discomfort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Col, are you ok? You look a bit pale. Is this something to do
      with magic?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Colin shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probably not, Da. I'm just feeling a little tired, is all. I'll
      be better in the morning."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll hold you to that, you know." Mr. Creevey's eyes twinkled,
      and Colin laughed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know, Da. Good night!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Colin went up to the second floor and into his room, falling
      into a dreamless sleep almost the instant his head hit the bed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">XxX</p>
      <p class="calibre6">August 28th, 1993, 10 am: 3 days before Hogwarts opens</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mrs. Babbage, was it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The voice jerked Voldemort out of his reverie. Somehow even a
      wizard with his mental reserves couldn't manage to stay focused in
      the Ministry's Property Allocations office. There was something
      about the place that seemed to drain the energy from anyone
      inside.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He lifted his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, that's me. Can I come in?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The attendant at the door nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Mr. Rimble will see you now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort stood, still a little shaky on his feet after this
      most recent set of bodily modifications. While it wasn't strictly
      necessary to modify his height and weight to avoid being seen as
      Bellatrix(after all, he had of course already changed his face and
      hair color) it never hurt to be too careful.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The attendant led him down a short hallway into a small room
      which almost looked like a cubicle. Everything about the room, from
      the N.E.W.T scores posted on the wall to the obnoxiously shiny
      nameplate on the desk in the center, suggested that its occupant
      felt a good deal more pride in his pointless middle manager job
      than was deserved. A few moments after he sat down, the desk's
      occupant turned to face him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good morning, Mrs. Babbage. My name is James Rimble, and I am
      your ministry-assigned Property Acquisitions representative. Why
      are you here this morning?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort sighed. The ministry, it seemed, was as delightfully
      incompetent as it had always been. Ah well, at least he could blow
      off some steam winding up idiots.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, Mr. Rimble, it should already say that in my file. But,
      since you don't seem to have that, I'm planning to move into
      Hogsmeade."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man's face reddened slightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All right, you don't need to be snarky. I just wanted to make
      sure your reasons matched with what we had on file."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To make sure I didn't lie about my reason for coming? I somehow
      doubt that happens enough to warrant this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rimble's eyes flashed with annoyance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, ma'am, that's not what we're here to talk about. I'm
      going to need to ask you to stop being confrontational."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort raised his hands in acceptance. Time to soothe some
      ruffled feathers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry, Mr. Rimble. I've just had such an abominable time
      getting here that I've lost some of my tact."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man laughed companionably.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can understand that, Mrs. Babbage. I'll try to get this done
      as quickly as possible, ok?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That would be excellent, thanks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rimble smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ok. Now, before I give you your permit for Hogsmeade residence
      and access key to the wards, I'm going to need you to answer some
      questions for our files, ok? Security's gotten a bit tighter around
      there lately, because of the Tower and all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course. Ask away."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"First off, have you taken any trips in the past 5 years?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Voldemort nodded. "I went to visit my son on the
      Continent around a month ago. He lives in Paris. I left on the 25th
      of July and returned on the 2nd of August."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rimble pulled out a file and glanced at it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ok, that checks out. Thanks for giving me the extra
      information, it cuts out some of the other questions I'd have
      needed to ask. Why are you moving to Hogsmeade?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Some of my relatives live there and they've been after me for a
      while to join them. Now that my son's out of the house, I can move
      there even though it means taking a smaller home. Also, with my
      husband gone, I'm a bit low on income, and Hogsmeade's cheaper than
      London."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man paused for a moment to update the file before turning
      back to Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Might I ask what happened to your husband?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He worked in the Department of Mysteries, doing god-knows-what.
      There...was an accident. I never even got to see the body-" It only
      took a little effort to bring tears to his eyes and fake choking
      back a sob.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rimble's eyes widened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ma'am, I didn't mean to bring back sad memories. I'll fast
      track you through the approval process, ok?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort nodded, wiping the tears from his face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank-thank you, James. When can I move in?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll do my best to make sure you can by tomorrow, Ma'am. Any
      more questions?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. Can I go?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man nodded and Voldemort stood up, leaving the room. That
      had been about as easy as expected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A/N: After many months, SBatPD is back! I've many, many plans
      for this story, and hopefully I can see them all come to fruition.
      There are some slight changes from GWatSI, mainly to
      characterization.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
