<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Sirius Black and the Prisoners Dilemma - Sirius Black and the Prisoner's Dilemma Chapter 3: Dissimulation, part II, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Sirius Black and the Prisoners Dilemma"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s3" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 3: Dissimulation, Pt II, Sufficiently Accurate
      Simulations</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The confundus charm is unique among nearly all charms in its
      method. Like many other spells(such as, say, Imperio) it is meant
      to control the actions of the victim. However, unlike Imperio and
      Legilimentic control, the spell does not implant low level hypnotic
      commands into the mind of the subject. Rather, it appears to
      override parts of the subject's consciousness entirely, replacing
      those portions with the caster's desired thoughts, memories, and
      emotions. This makes the spell simultaneously far more dangerous
      and more versatile. On the one hand, an inexpert caster can leave
      their victim a drooling, unrecoverable wreck, replacing their minds
      with half-built thoughts. On the other hand, an expert can change a
      person on a far more delicate level, slightly modifying various
      parts of their minds to create the perfect sleeper agent. In
      effect, the confundus charm is the scalpel to Imperio's hammer. It
      takes far more practice to use, but can do far more.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">To explain the relevancy of the charm to our mission,
      consider this: Confundus works on any human being with a magical
      core, including those who have unfortunately been Kissed or who are
      brain dead. A skilled legilimens can recover enough information
      from a person's mind to emulate them through a confundus in
      minutes, if not less. The implications are clear. Magical transfer
      of consciousness is possible.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">-Research log, section X: Conclusions and evaluations.
      Subsection II: Consciousness emulation(Tower of hogwarts, July
      1993)</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">XxX</p>
      <p class="calibre6">August 31, 1993: 1 day prior to Hogwarts' opening</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Colin struggled to wake. It looked like he had had the dream
      again. His eyes opened and he groaned to find that his sheets were
      soaked with sweat, just like they had been for the past 5 nights.
      He really needed to figure out what was going on because this kind
      of sleep deprivation would seriously screw up his research and
      could damage his mind. He closed his eyes, trying to reconstruct
      the dream. After a few seconds, the dream flew back to him, playing
      behind his eyelids almost against his will.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Hands too large extend from a body that's too big, it's TOO
      BIG and he can't control it and it's reaching for another him,
      that's another HIM there on the floor and he looks sick and doesn't
      move. The hands move and a bit of the other him's hair falls off
      and he can't understand why any of this is happening, he tries to
      think about it rationally like Harry taught him but his brain feels
      like it's broken and missing pieces and before he can even start
      thinking about that the hands twitch again and there's blue liquid
      flowing down his throat. Then there is darkness.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">His eyes snapped open. He hadn't seen the blue liquid before.
      That gave him something to work on. He feverishly unzipped his bag
      and flung out the carefully packed books until he found what he was
      looking for: his potions textbook. He flipped to the image-based
      index(one of the features of the new books, Harry had insisted on
      it for some reason and for the life of him he couldn't remember
      why, he couldn't remember anything like he should be able to but
      now wasn't the time to think of problems, now was the time to solve
      them) and scanned down the page, trying to find anything that could
      possibly be the liquid from his dreams. Eventually, he caught sight
      of two potions in a section marked 'Advanced: Only present for
      demonstrative purposes'. The first was a dark blue, slightly
      different from the color in his dreams: the Draught of Peace.
      According to the textbook, the potion served as an emotional
      depressant and a sedative. Given his dreams, that...didn't seem
      likely. On the other hand, maybe the weird color was because the
      potion was prepared incorrectly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The next potion threw him for a loop: Wolfsbane. The potion was
      a bright blue, just like he remembered from his dream. Also, its
      user needed to take it every night for a week before the full moon.
      If the sky the night before was anything to go by, the full moon
      would be the next day, if not earlier. That didn't explain the
      hands, and the other him, but it seemed to make a kind of sense.
      There was one thing that he needed to check, though. With a goal in
      mind, Colin walked downstairs and greeted his father.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good morning, Da."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mr. Creevey smiled, though some concern still lingered in his
      eyes. He knew Colin wasn't sleeping well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That it is, Col. How are you feeling?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Colin shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A bit better, Da. How's Dennis?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Colin's father beamed. "He's doing excellently. He sent me a
      letter this morning saying that he'd just finished getting the last
      of his books."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's good." Colin fell silent, staring at his father for a
      few moments.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, son?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have a question: when I came back from research Wednesday
      night, did you see any scratches or cuts on my body? Small scrapes,
      even?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His father tilted his head for a few seconds, thinking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, son, I can't say you did. You were really pale though. It
      looked like something had scared you out there. Why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think...I think I might know why I've been having bad
      dreams." Colin hesitated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why?" His father urged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I...I might be a werewolf. I don't know for sure, and I think
      that I've been taking potions to fix it. I think that I've been
      forcing myself to take those potions before making myself forget
      the experience."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mr. Creevey's eyes widened and he fell silent for a few seconds,
      clearly stunned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Son...you want to run that by me again? I think I must have
      misheard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure, Da. See, the morning after I got home, I checked my wand,
      and the most spell I'd fired that night was meant to implant
      commands. Also, I've been having dreams where I drink a potion that
      looks like one called Wolfsbane. I think I got bitten by a werewolf
      out there and then used the spell to make sure I'd drink Wolfsbane
      and not remember drinking it, but I screwed it up slightly so now I
      remember in dreams."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...what exactly should I be doing about this, Colin? It sounds
      like you're in danger, and I have no idea how to help. Should I
      write the professor that took you and Dennis to buy your
      books?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Colin sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know if there's anything you can do, Da. I don't want
      to tell her what I think it is in case I'm wrong. Look, I'll be at
      Hogwarts tomorrow night, and I'll ask the healers to check me over,
      ok? If this is what I think it is, then I'll be fine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His father nodded unwillingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you say so, Col. If you say so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing's going to happen to me this year, Da." Colin smiled.
      "I promise."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">XxX</p>
      <p class="calibre6">August 31, 1993: one day prior to Hogwarts opening.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">9:52 am</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Stupefy et Signa!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">A red bolt flickered along a dark hallway before sharply curving
      in midair to slam into a seemingly nondescript wall. A few seconds
      later, a high, clear sound rang out and a green light shone for a
      brief moment before shutting off. Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres
      took note of the light for a moment before turning to a notebook
      and activating his dictation quill.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Test 101a result: Strings of enchantments can be linked to
      specific casting words and gestures as a compression method. This
      suggests that spells as we know them are based enough in the mind
      of the caster that the caster can, to some extent, combine various
      spells into a new spell.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">After he fell silent, he leaned back against a wall as his eyes
      closed. Combining spell strings was a taxing mental exercise, even
      for him. Especially given his particular...versions of the task. On
      the other hand, he was yielding results! In only a few months, he'd
      have some basic enchantment sequences finetuned to the point that
      he could teach them to others!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As he relaxed, Hermione appeared out of a seeming void next to
      him. That particular trick had taken her a few months and a lot of
      research into the refractive properties of pressurized air.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, are you ok?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He opened his mouth to answer, but she cut him off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why am I even asking you this question, of course you aren't,
      look at you. You've been working on this one set of experiments for
      how many hours straight now? 30? 40?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sheepishly nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"45 or so, actually, but that isn't especially relevant. I did
      get some sleep in the interim period. And I need to finish this as
      soon as possible! Spell strings could massively hasten the stasis
      process! My work might be tiring but I'm saving lives."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was true of the polyjuice research too. And the low level
      command system for healer reflexes. And the consciousness emulation
      systems. In fact, if I'm not wrong, every project you've been
      working on since the Amortentia...incident fit that qualification,
      did they not?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, you can't keep doing this to yourself!" Hermione
      snapped. Her magic seemed to press down on the room. "You're
      burning yourself out, and I won't just sit by and watch it happen.
      You won't do this alone, Harry-" She cut herself off before her
      next words could leave her mouth but they reverberated in her mind.
      'because I swore on my life and magic that you'd never have
      to.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He caught sight of her expression and whitened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, it's ok. I'll pull back on the experiments for now. I
      just had my first successful result, anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her demeanor instantly changed and she stepped closer to
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really? What was it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He smiled and raised his wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Observe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He flicked his wand 3 times at the wall to his left.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Luminos! Stuporfy tenues! Lux sopitum!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wall lit up briefly before a stunner slammed into it. A
      moment later, the spot hit by the stunner glowed a faint green.
      Hermione tilted her head, confused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes? You've shown me this combination before. Is there
      something I should be seeing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grinned and twisted his wand once.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Stupefy et Signa!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The same set of effects repeated themselves at a slightly faster
      pace. Hermione's eyes widened as she smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You figured out spell strings! What was causing the issue?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Something about holding every spell in mind simultaneously was
      a mental stumbling block. I ended up bypassing it by-" Harry's
      voice froze. A few seconds later, he cursed under his breath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Looks like the Vow blocked that one. So be it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's that dangerous?" The secondary, real question was not
      missed by either of them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know, Hermione. I was able to think about teaching
      healers to do it. I just don't know. Anyway, why'd you come to see
      me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She smiled again, a smaller, weaker smile this time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wanted to remind you that the school year starts tomorrow.
      Ready for third year?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A/N: Sorry for the slight delay, the second half of this chapter
      was difficult to write. The next chapter(either Dissimulation III:
      Foreground and Background, or Foregrounds and Backgrounds I) should
      be out in about 2 weeks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I feel now's as good a time to say it as any: all facts in this
      story(whether about the canon-verse, MoR-verse, the stuff I'm
      preserving from the GWatSI-verse or about physical stuff like full
      moon) are meant to be accurate. If you find mistakes, please tell
      me(sources if you would).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Plotwise: The chapter title is directly relevant to all three
      sections of the chapter, and figuring out how will help the reader
      figure out Harry's method for spell strings.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Please review!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
