<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Ginny Weasley and the Methods of Rationality - Ginny Weasley and the Methods of Rationality Chapter 2: Nerve Issues, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Ginny Weasley and the Methods of Rationality"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 2: Nerve Issues</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">A few seconds later Ginny still had not said a word.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You seem to be experiencing some kind of glossophobia, does
      that happen to you often? You can nod if you cannot talk," asked
      Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny had not understood a word of what Harry said. She showed
      no reaction at all, only her head turned even redder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, my mistake, said Harry. "Of course you don't know the
      technical term. Do you usually find it difficult to talk to
      people?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny shook her head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then it seems to me that I am somehow a very important person
      for you, and you are experiencing glossophobia because you're
      afraid to say something wrong. The easiest way to fix that would
      probably be if I showed you that I am a completely normal person
      like you, and there is no reason to be afraid. However, I find
      acting like a normal 12 year old to be very annoying, so we can
      disregard that solution. Another way would be to find out the
      deeper reasons behind your nervousness, but I don't think I have
      enough practice in psychology to do that. So let's try this: Stand
      up straight, spread your arms and legs a bit and breathe
      deeply."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny did as Harry had told her, and after a few seconds she
      really started to feel a bit more comfortable. She continued
      standing silently for a while and then said, "Thank you, that
      really helped."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have just tricked your subconscious mind," Harry said. "By
      showing body language signs of confidence, you actually feel more
      confident. By the way, you still haven't told me if my guess was
      right. Are you Ginny Weasley?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes I am," she replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"OK, Ginny, then why have you come to this compartment? Did you
      want to speak with me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny again fell silent. She realised that she had not thought
      her first meeting with Harry Potter through very well. Actually her
      plan had only extended so far as to open the compartment door and
      step inside. In retrospect she felt quite stupid for that, but
      couldn't change it now, so she just said, "I was looking for a
      place to sit and all the other compartments were full." Although
      she did not think it sounded very convincing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In that case, just have a seat. You can put your trunk on the
      other bench next to mine. There's no need to lift it up to the
      storage space. I doubt that more people will come to sit here. Most
      people who know me avoid spending too much time with me, because
      spending time with me tends to make your life surreal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Won't Hermione Granger be coming?" asked Ginny. "I mean, isn't
      she your girlfriend?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know who told you that, but she is not my girlfriend
      and if you ever hear that rumour again, please tell me who spread
      it; I would like to give that person a visit. Hermione won't be in
      Hogwarts the first couple of days; she has something else to
      do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny had only half paid attention to what Harry had said after
      he denied that Hermione was his girlfriend. At that point she felt
      a sudden rush of joy. She had always expected Hermione to be an
      obstacle that she would have to get out of the way first, before
      having a shot with Harry. This would make things a lot easier.
      However, there was still the problem that she was extremely nervous
      around him. Before she could think any further on how to fix that
      issue, Harry interrupted her thoughts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excuse me for being this direct, I just don't see the point of
      not mentioning the obvious, just because it might hurt someone's
      feelings. If we all spent less time on protecting other people's
      feelings and more on saying what we actually think, then there
      would be a lot fewer misunderstandings in human communication. I
      don't believe that you entered this compartment by chance. Your
      behaviour shows that you clearly knew who I am, so I guess you
      wanted to meet me. Is that correct?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny had known that her excuse was not really believable, and
      that someone as smart as Harry would of course see through it, so
      there was no point in denying it. So she replied, "Yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"May I ask you why you wanted to meet me? Is it just because I'm
      famous? Do you want an autograph?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny thought carefully about her reply. She would have loved an
      autograph from Harry but she did not think that asking for one now
      would be very helpful to her plans with him. She thought about what
      he had said about how telling the truth made human communication
      easier, and briefly considered confessing her love to Harry, but
      that did not seem wise at this point either. So she answered: "Fred
      and George told me a lot about you, and I thought you would be an
      interesting person to meet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That seems reasonable to me," replied Harry. "I am indeed an
      interesting person." He sounded rather pleased with himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The question is, are you an interesting person? I would ask you
      to pitch to me, why I should be interested in getting to know you.
      But you still seem quite nervous around me, so that test would
      probably not give good results. Your nervousness will fade with
      time and it doesn't tell me anything about whether you're an
      interesting person or not. If you want to test if someone is fit
      for a job, you should test skills that are actually required for
      the job. That's something that muggles get wrong a lot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What exactly do you mean by that?", asked Ginny. She had
      inherited part of her father's curiosity about the muggle world
      and, since it played an important role in Harry's life, she thought
      it was a good idea to know more about it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look at the process of how muggles in Britain choose their
      leaders for example. The key skill you've got to have is
      persuasion. Less and less people seem to actually care about what
      you want to do after you get elected. They elect you based on
      things like charisma and rhetorical skills. The correlation between
      those things and the ability to make good decisions for a country
      is not that strong. Of course, it is still higher than the
      correlation between being born into a Noble and Most Ancient House
      and being an able leader, so muggle governments are in general more
      competent than the Wizengamot, but still there would be better ways
      to choose a leader."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"OK, I think I understand," said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Great, than we can proceed with the friend casting thing. You
      don't have to be nervous, what I've heard from you so far is
      already relatively promising, and I have a good record of casting
      my friends in the Hogwarts Express. I'm just going to ask you some
      questions. Let me start with this one: what do you think about
      Quidditch?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny had not expected that. Ron always told her that Harry
      Potter hated Quidditch, and once threatened to destroy it. She felt
      the nervousness creeping back into her brain and sabotaging her
      ability to form proper thoughts. She repeated the techniques Harry
      had shown her earlier and, when she felt calm again, she replied:
      "I quite like watching it. I would also like to play, but my
      brothers never let me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For a quarter of a second Harry seemed to look a bit
      disappointed, but then his face went back to a neutral expression.
      She thought that it might have been a better idea to deny that she
      liked Quidditch, but it was too late for that now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What position would you like to play if you could choose?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny did not know which answer Harry wanted to hear so she
      answered honestly: "I think I'd like being a chaser the most."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why not the seeker? That is the most important player."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think I just like being really involved in the game. Of
      course the seeker is more important, but I don't think it's that
      much fun to fly around alone doing nothing until you see the
      snitch. The chaser is just more a part of the team."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That seemed to please Harry, and Ginny thought that she had
      gotten the answer right this time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then what would you say if I told you that the snitch
      completely ruins Quidditch, since catching it makes everything else
      that happened during the game irrelevant in most cases?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At first Ginny was shocked by this statement. The snitch was an
      important part of Quidditch, it had been part of the game for more
      than a thousand years, but what Harry said actually made sense. It
      happened maybe once a year that a professional Quidditch game was
      decided by anything other than who got the snitch. That was mostly
      if a top tier team played against a bad one, and the seeker of the
      bad team caught the snitch. But with two teams of equal strength it
      almost never happened that one managed to score over 15 goals more
      than the other team. Especially as Quidditch matches grew shorter
      and shorter, with the racing brooms getting better.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're absolutely right; the snitch kind of ruins the game. I
      can't believe that I never noticed that on my own." She was
      surprised to realise that she had not said this because she knew it
      was the answer Harry wanted to hear, but that she actually believed
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a lot harder spotting mistakes like that if everyone
      around you doesn't see them," said Harry. "It takes training, and
      wizards usually don't have that training. Although I have hope that
      this might change quite soon. You admitted that your belief about
      how Quidditch should be was wrong. Admitting that you are wrong is
      one of the most important skills of a rationalist. You passed the
      test."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny smiled as she heard the good news and then she asked:
      "Ehm, Harry, what is a rationalist?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Rationalist strive to acquire accurate beliefs about the world
      around them, and uses those beliefs to make good decisions and
      maximise their utility."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And how does that work? I mean, how do you get accurate beliefs
      about the world?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You perform experiments and measure the results. And you can
      read books written by people who already performed experiments
      before you. That is actually the faster way for most things. At
      least, things that don't concern magic. If you don't have to repeat
      experiments that were already done, you have more time to test
      things that are actually new. I am sure that you are still a bit
      confused by this. It is very unintuitive for wizard born children
      and even for a lot of muggles. But I expect you to understand it
      after a while in Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you really think so? My brothers never mentioned that they
      learned anything like that in Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, you plan to spend time with me. And people who spend time
      with me usually learn a thing or two about rationality."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll be spending time with you? I thought you wanted to test me
      first, before you decided on that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, by asking you questions I cannot truly find out whether I
      would like to be your friend. The only thing I can find out quite
      easily is if you fulfil any K.O. criteria that prevent me from
      being able to enjoy spending time with you. I hadn't made a list of
      such criteria when I asked you the first question, so I just tried
      to test the first one that came into my mind. And now that I've
      thought about it, I've come to the conclusion that I only have one
      criterion. Friends of mine have to be able to admit when they are
      wrong, because otherwise it is impossible to have an intelligent
      conversation with them. You showed that you can do that. I hereby
      officially declare you my friend. On probation of course, I still
      don't know nearly enough about you to make a final decision on the
      topic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To this Ginny said nothing. She just sat there and smiled. She
      had never been happier than that in her entire life.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Authors notes</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">This chapter was a bit of a filler chapter, but I hope you still
      liked it. In the next chapter you'll find out how the setting for
      my Hogwarts will look like. It will go online on Sunday the 31th of
      may.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
