<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Ginny Weasley and the Methods of Rationality - Ginny Weasley and the Methods of Rationality Chapter 3: Shock Therapy, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Ginny Weasley and the Methods of Rationality"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s3" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 3: Shock Therapy</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny entered the great hall together with the other first year
      students. After spending a very enjoyable time with Harry, they had
      been divided after the train reached Hogwarts. She had to cross the
      lake with Hagrid, the gamekeeper of Hogwarts, and the other first
      years, while Harry went to the self-moving carriages that took the
      older students to the castle. She had wondered why the first years
      had to go to the castle separately from the other students and
      assumed that this was probably one of those ancient traditions
      which no one knew the purpose of anymore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The flock of first years came to a halt between the Head Table
      and the four House tables. In front of the Head Table stood a chair
      with an old hat on it. She knew that this was the sorting hat,
      which had sorted countless generations of wizarding children into
      the four Houses of Hogwarts. It would soon sort her as well.
      Although finding out which House of Hogwarts would be hers was an
      important event with huge influence on her future life, she was not
      nervous. After all, she could not change the hat's decision anyway.
      She hoped to be sorted into Ravenclaw so she would see Harry more
      often, but she expected to end up in Gryffindor as everyone of her
      family did before her. She looked towards the Staff Table again and
      saw that Professor McGonagall had left her Chair and was now
      standing in front of a podium.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Welcome to a new year at Hogwarts," said Professor McGonagall.
      "I know all of you first years are very excited to be finally
      sorted into your houses, but the head of House Slytherin has
      insisted on talking to you before the sorting. Therefore, I will
      introduce you to our new staff members first, and then give them
      the chance to say a few words if they like. First of all, you might
      have already guessed that I am the new Headmistress of Hogwarts. I
      will replace Albus Dumbledore, who is currently unable to be here
      with us." Her voice sounded weary and sad as she said the last
      sentence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny was quite confused. The Prophet had proclaimed that Albus
      Dumbledore was dead. Killed by Lord Voldemort before David Monroe
      was able to stop him. Of course they had not found a body, but
      Dumbledore disappearing on the same day of the Voldemort incident
      was very unlikely a coincidence. However, Professor McGonagall
      seemed to believe that he was still alive.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor Snape also left us last year and will be replaced by
      Horace Slughorn." Ginny had heard a bit about Slughorn. He had been
      her parents' potions teacher. They did not really like him as he
      favoured people with influential relatives or outstanding skills
      and they had had neither. Ginny was not sure what to think about
      him, but if half the things she heard about Snape were true, he
      would be an improvement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After the applause (mostly from the Slytherin table) had ended,
      Professor McGonagall started to speak again: "Also, as usual, we
      needed a new Defence Professor. I am glad to announce that we were
      able to recruit a well-known fighter of evil powers for this
      position. Please welcome Professor Gilderoy Lockhart." At the Staff
      Table, Gilderoy Lockhart appeared and put the invisibility cloak
      under which he had hidden on the desk. This explained a lot. Ginny
      had to buy all of Lockhart's books for this semester. She had
      assumed that the new defence teacher was a fan of Lockhart, but she
      had never expected that it would be Lockhart himself. The applause
      was much louder than it had been for Slughorn and Ginny could
      understand why. Gilderoy Lockhart really was famous. He was
      probably the third most prominent enemy of dark wizards and
      creatures after Harry Potter and David Monroe. If anyone could
      replace Monroe as a defence teacher, it was probably him. Besides
      that, he was really handsome, and half of magical Britain's female
      population fancied him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After the applause had finally stopped, Lockhart said with a
      magically enhanced voice:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am sorry that I had to deprive you of my sight with an
      invisibility cloak until now, but I knew that you would never have
      been able to concentrate on the headmistress's speech with me
      sitting at the table, and you thinking that this might be the only
      chance to get an autograph. But now you know that there will be
      plenty of time for that this year, please continue to pay attention
      to Professor McGonagall. Although she might not be a renowned
      fighter of dark magic and five time winner of the Witches Weekly
      Most Charming Smile Award like me, her words are of some value for
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart sat down again and the Headmistress continued with her
      speech. "Thank you for your kind words Gilderoy," she said with a
      very polite tone. "As some of you might have realised, there is
      another face missing at the Staff Table. Professor Trelawney is no
      longer a teacher at Hogwarts because her subject, Divination, has
      been removed from the Hogwarts curriculum. Our last new staff
      member will now explain why this has happened and what he will be
      teaching instead of Divination."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The hall went silent as everyone was confused about what they
      had just heard. People were looking around so see were the new
      Professor, who was not at the table yet, would come from. Somewhere
      behind her, Ginny heard a chair moving. She turned around and saw
      that a person had stood up from the Ravenclaw table and was now
      moving towards the podium. It took her and everyone else a few
      seconds to realise what had just happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a sudden silence in the hall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All conversation stopped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All eyes turned to stare.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres walked slowly and with a calm
      expression, completely ignoring the confused looks everyone gave
      him. It seemed to take ages until he finally reached the podium. He
      stopped there, pointed his wand at himself and said "Sonorus." A
      few seconds later, his magically enhanced voice filled the great
      hall of Hogwarts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think most of you are probably confused by what has just
      happened. So let me explain it to you. First, let's talk about
      Divination. I am actually completely stunned how this subject can
      have survived for more than a thousand years. It's stupid even by
      wizards' standards. It makes less sense than the snitch. No one can
      learn to make prophecies. You are either born a seer or not. And
      even seers cannot deliberately make prophecies. They make them at
      completely random times. Things taught in Divination are not part
      of the process of making a prophecy, and there is no evidence that
      studying Divination increases the chance that a seer makes a
      prophecy in any way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny was stunned by this statement. It was so obvious that she
      wondered how more than thirty generations of wizards could have
      missed that fact. She seriously reconsidered the gratefulness she
      had felt for growing up in a wizard family earlier this day. Maybe
      growing up in the Muggle world would actually have been better.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a lot of frustration in Harry's voice as he continued
      speaking:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Although I think you all comprehended what I wanted to tell
      you, although everyone with a brain should be able to understand
      it, the Hogwarts Board of Governors still refused the removal of
      Divination from the curriculum. If I had not been able to convince
      the Chief Warlock to get a law through the Wizengamot that
      overruled them, this subject would probably have been taught
      forever simply because it is tradition for a wizarding school to
      offer Divination.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You might now be wondering what I will teach you. If you hope
      that I will show you how to do whatever you want by snapping your
      fingers, I'll have to disappoint you. I do, however, believe that
      what I am going to teach you will be the most valuable thing you
      will learn your entire life. I will teach you to realise if you are
      studying a completely pointless subject. I will teach you how to
      frighten dementors without using a patronus charm, I will teach you
      how to use magic in ways you do not think are possible, and finally
      after my lessons you might be able to understand, how I can do
      whatever I want by snapping my fingers. I will teach you the
      methods of rationality."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone in the audience looked puzzled. No one had ever heard
      of these methods of rationality, and they could not possibly allow
      you to frighten dementors. Sure, Harry had done that, but that was
      because he was a powerful and potentially dark wizard. Ginny,
      however, was not confused, she finally understood what Harry had
      really meant when he told her that she would understand what a
      rationalist was after some time in Hogwarts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a long pause, Harry started speaking again: "You might
      currently not believe me that rationality is more important than
      powerful magic, but I suggest you try it out. After all, it is
      impossible that my lessons are more useless than Divination, so it
      can only be an improvement for you. Divination was an elective
      starting in the third year, I will however start teaching students
      from their first year onwards if they wish to learn from me. It is
      a bit of extra work for you, but I would still recommend it to
      everyone. If you don't like my teaching, you can leave my lessons
      at any point in time. There is no use in trying to teach
      rationality to someone who is not willing to learn."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny did not even have to consider. She immediately decided to
      sign up for the lessons. After all, it was Harry giving them. But
      besides that, what Harry said actually made so much sense that she
      would have probably even signed up to learn his way of thinking if
      someone else would have taught it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Before we can at last begin with the sorting, I have one last
      thing to tell you. I am the new head of house Slytherin and I would
      like to explain to you what will change in Slytherin under my
      influence. All first year students please listen carefully even if
      you have decided that you would never join Slytherin house."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On a normal day, the statement that a twelve year old Ravenclaw
      student was the new head of House Slytherin would have shocked
      everyone and probably produced an outrage at the Slytherin table,
      but after what had happened before people were just silently
      staring at Harry, waiting for what he would say next. Ginny, like
      everyone else, had expected Professor Slughorn to be the new head
      of House Slytherin and was now curious about what Harry would say
      next. After all, he was not even a Slytherin himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There has been a lot of confusion about what House Slytherin is
      about in the past. The goal of the Houses of Hogwarts is to sort
      students by their dominating personality trait. The trait of
      Slytherin is ambition. Hating muggleborns has nothing to do with
      being ambitious or the values of House Slytherin. Sure, Salazar
      Slytherin did not like Muggleborns, but in his time this was true
      for the majority of wizards. The only reason most people in
      Slytherin do not like Muggleborns is that the sorting hat takes
      people's wishes into consideration. And because everyone believes
      Slytherin is about hating Muggles, people who hate Muggleborns
      choose to be in Slytherin, and other people choose other Houses
      even if they are ambitious. I will not tolerate discrimination
      based on blood status in my house. I encourage everyone who is
      truly ambitious to join Slytherin this year. If you would like, I
      will write a letter to your parents to explain the new policy of
      House Slytherin to them. That way, it might be easier for you to
      explain it to them. I don't want to be responsible for anyone of
      you getting disowned after all. That was all I had to say to you.
      We can now begin with the sorting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Authors Notes</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The next chapter will go online on wednesday the 10th of june. I
      know that it is controversial whether Harry's unbreakable vow would
      allow him to teach rationality. I will try to explain why I think
      that he should be able to do so as soon as possible. However it
      will take a while since I don't want to write from his perspective.
      So Ginny will have to find out about the vow first. I have already
      wrote a bit about my opinion on this topic in this chapters draft
      thread on reddit, so if you are curious you can look there.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
