<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Ginny Weasley and the Methods of Rationality - Ginny Weasley and the Methods of Rationality Chapter 4: Mirroring, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Ginny Weasley and the Methods of Rationality"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s4" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 4: Mirroring</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Harry left the podium and walked back to the Ravenclaw table.
      Ginny thought about what he had said about House Slytherin. She had
      never considered going there, but with Harry as Head of House, this
      suddenly became a real option. Also, Harry had said that the Hat
      would take wishes into consideration. Maybe she was not doomed to
      end up in Gryffindor after all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A loud clapping noise pulled Ginny out of her thoughts and she
      saw a girl walking to the Ravenclaw table. She realised that
      Professor McGonagall had started with the sorting and that she had
      missed at least one person already.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Creevey, Colin!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pause.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"GRYFFINDOR!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Darcy, Pearl!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pause.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"SLYTHERIN"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dursley, Dudley!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pause.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"GRYFFINDOR!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Graves, Magdalen"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pause.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"RAVENCLAW!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a while Ginny's thoughts drifted away and she began to
      think about her own Sorting again. She really was unsure which
      House she would choose, if the Hat gave her a choice. She didn't
      think that she wanted to go to Hufflepuff. She came from a big
      family and loyal friends was not what she was really in need of.
      And only few people of importance had ever come from Hufflepuff.
      She also would have preferred not to go to Gryffindor, because
      there she would be constantly confronted with her elder siblings.
      She liked all of them well, but she preferred a clean start where
      she could find her own way, without her siblings intervening. Also,
      Harry was not linked to House Gryffindor like he was to Ravenclaw
      and Slytherin. Between those two houses she was really not sure,
      but it would probably be best to talk those two options through
      with the help of the Hat. After coming to this conclusion, Ginny
      started paying attention to the sorting again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Little, Justin!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pause.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"SLYTHERIN"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lovegood, Luna!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pause.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"HUFFLEPUFF"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Moon, Eve!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pause.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"HUFFLEPUFF"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Rogers, Timothy!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pause.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"SLYTHERIN"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Smith, Zacharias!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pause.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"SLYTHERIN"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Other persons were called out and Sorted, but Ginny did not pay
      attention. Her own sorting came closer and closer and eventually
      she started getting nervous. A lot of her future depended on what
      would happen under the Sorting Hat and she started thinking
      everything through for a second time without coming to any new
      conclusions. Finally she heard Professor McGonagall's voice
      say:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Weasley, Ginevra!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After hearing her name, Ginny took place on the chair in front
      of the Staff Table and pulled the old hat over her head. The moment
      the hat rested on her head her nervousness was blown away. A few
      seconds later she heard a voice saying:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">This is going to take a while."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Although Ginny had known that the Sorting Hat would speak to
      her, nothing had prepared her for the feeling of communicating with
      it. She did not <em class="calibre8">hear</em> the hat, she <em class="calibre8">thought</em> it. It
      felt like her own thoughts, but in a different voice and she had no
      control over them. After the initial sensation was gone and her
      head was clear again, the hat continued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">There are a lot of possible options for you. I don't think
      that you belong into Hufflepuff. You will be loyal to your friends,
      most people are since they don't want to lose them, but you will
      not support your friends to the very end if you think their actions
      are stupid. Loyalty is not your dominating character trait, but
      Gryffindor, Ravenclaw and Slytherin are options we should discuss.
      Let's start with Gryffindor. You definitely don't fear danger. You
      are not the typical Gryffindor who would run into every dangerous
      situation without thinking about it, but you will stand up for what
      you believe even if it is risky."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think I would prefer Ravenclaw or Slytherin", said Ginny</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Why is that so? Your whole family was in Gryffindor, it is
      the most prestigious house, people will expect you to go there. Ah,
      I see you think that this Harry Potter boy would think better of
      you if you went in one of those houses."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">At first Ginny was confused how the Hat could know this, then
      she remembered that it could read her mind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">I have seen similar motives often before, although usually
      it is that someone wants to be in the same house as one of his
      friends. Let me make this clear, I will take your wishes into
      consideration and will usually send no one to a house where they
      wouldn't want to be, but I will not send you into a house just
      because someone else you like is there. Friendships at your age
      usually don't last forever and crushes almost never do. It would be
      very unwise to sort people based on those things. You will have to
      convince me with something else to not send you into
      Gryffindor."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny gave the hat a mental nod and then said, "OK let's talk
      about Ravenclaw. You said this was an option for me"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">You value knowledge and not only because you want to
      impress that Potter boy with it. You actually enjoy finding out new
      things. You would find people who are like that in
      Ravenclaw."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"OK and what about Slytherin? I bet you were unhappy every time
      you had to send someone who belonged to Slytherin somewhere else. I
      am sure you want to avoid that happening again, now that people are
      more willing to go there"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">I was not unhappy, because I usually don't have feelings.
      However since I borrow most of my intelligence from the minds of
      the students I sit on I have now indeed become unhappy, since you
      thought of me as someone who has feelings. I don't know what is
      wrong with wizard children nowadays. For hundreds of years they
      have just accepted that a speaking hat is talking do them and not
      cared about how it feels. This is the second time something strange
      like this has happened to me in two years.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny was quite surprised. She had not expected that she could
      change the Sorting Hat just by expecting something of it. She
      decided not to talk about this incident since it would have major
      potential for abuse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Let us come back to your sorting. You want to achieve
      something in your life. You want to outshine your older brothers
      even though most of them are rather bright. And there is this
      Potter boy. You have set yourself the goal to seduce him and would
      even have been willing to base your choice of house on what you
      think he would prefer just because you think it would help you with
      your goal. You are clearly ambitious and willing to do things to
      achieve your goals. I think to decide whether Slytherin or
      Ravenclaw would suit you better you should tell me for what reason
      you seek knowledge?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I like understanding new things, that is definitely a part of
      it. But I think mostly I want to learn things because they are
      useful. They help me make better decisions and plan my
      actions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">So you seek knowledge because it helps you to achieve your
      goals, that points more towards Slytherin than Ravenclaw. What do
      you want to do after you graduate from Hogwarts, besides marry
      Harry Potter?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I want to become the most powerful witch I can possibly be. I
      don't want to stop learning after Hogwarts. Then I want to find
      some way to make money. I will probably use the knowledge I have
      gathered to invent some kinds of magical artefacts I can sell. Just
      taking a normal job will not give me the amount of money that I
      need to become an influential person. After I have achieved this I
      have every possibility open to me. I can decide to just live my
      quiet and happy or to seek further power and go into politics."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">You have planned your future quite well for a girl of your
      age. Although most of your plans probably will not work out the way
      that you expect, you have shown true ambition. You did not just say
      that you want to become rich and powerful, but you have a clear
      idea on how to achieve these goals. I think you would really do
      better in Slytherin than in either of Gryffindor or Ravenclaw. Do
      you accept my decision to put you into Slytherin?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, but don't officially sort me just yet. Can you please wait
      another minute or two? Staying under the hat for a long time is
      seen as a sign that someone is a powerful witch or wizard. I think
      it will really improve my chances with Harry Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">You are a Slytherin indeed. You are not the first person to
      ask me this. A few other Slytherins have done so, but not many. I
      usually decline since I don't care about whether you achieve your
      ambition. I care about sorting. But currently I am happy that I
      sorted you correctly and I quite like this feeling, I will grant
      your request and wait before I proclaim you a Slytherin.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">After that, the voice of the hat disappeared and Ginny sat there
      in silence for a while before the hat proclaimed:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"SLYTHERIN!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny stood up and walked towards the Slytherin table to join
      her new housemates. While walking, she scanned the crowd for
      familiar faces. Harry smiled at her, he looked rather happy with
      her decision. Ron did look very angry; he had a strong dislike for
      Slytherin and was proud to be from an all-Gryffindor family. Seeing
      him look at her like this made Ginny sad. She really hoped that her
      decision had not seriously damaged her relationship with him. Fred
      and George seemed to be neither happy nor unhappy with her
      decision. They had never taken the house rivalries very seriously,
      so she guessed they would not treat her any differently because she
      decided to be in Slytherin. Percy's look was hard to read, but she
      thought that he would support her decision. Now that she thought
      about it, the Hat had probably offered Percy Slytherin as well. He
      was very ambitious. He already planned to join the ministry after
      Hogwarts and she was sure that he would not be content with a badly
      paid position in some unimportant office like their father. She was
      sure that if Percy had put on the Sorting Hat today, he would have
      been in Slytherin as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She reached the Slytherin Table and sat down next to Timothy
      Rogers. The moment she sat down again, the Sorting Hat proclaimed
      "Gryffindor" and a small boy started walking to the Gryffindor
      table. She saw that all first years had been sorted now and an
      instance later, food appeared on the table in front of her. She
      started eating and began small talk with the other first years
      around her. It would be good to make some friends on among the
      first years, since she did not know anyone in House Slytherin. She
      was halfway through her first plate of food when she heard a
      shrieking sound from somewhere above her. A single owl was flying
      through the great hall of Hogwarts. It dropped a sealed parchment
      in front of Harry Potter and then left. Harry broke the seal looked
      at the parchment for a few seconds and smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Authors Notes</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Thanks to everyone who sent me a proposal for a character on
      reddit. As you can see I have included quite a few of them into the
      story and will possibly add more later on. I can however neither
      confirm nor deny that I will stick a hundred percent to the
      background story you proposed. The next chapter will go online on
      Saturday the 20th of June.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
