<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 49: CC 16: Equivalent Exchange, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fa...</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s12" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 16: Equivalent Exchange</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Their meeting wasn't exactly a secret, but then, they didn't
      exactly want anyone to find out about it, either.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo sat behind a small table in a dusty, long-unused office on
      the third floor, just around the corner from where a Troll had
      thrown him through a window a year earlier. The enormous oak tree
      he'd created was still there, blocking most of the hallway. To get
      to the room they were in, you had to squeeze between the rough bark
      and the still-damaged stone wall. It was as close to private as you
      could get in Hogwarts without resorting to one of the secret
      passages, of which Milo was still largely in the dark about, or
      without revealing certain <em class="calibre8">tricks</em> he had pulled with
      <em class="calibre8">Illusory Wall</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Besides, he had his most trusted thug—</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo felt a surge of irritation through the bond.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His most favoured minio—</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The irritation increased.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His trusted, loyal companion through the years, who had never
      left his side in danger (except for that one time with the
      Acromantula), who had always come through for him, and who had
      recently been armed with magical high explosives, though, verily,
      he could deter threats with his bare fangs, stood watch outside the
      door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mordy seemed to have no problem with that description.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Across the table from him were a witch and a wizard. The first
      had a square jaw, close-cropped gray hair, a monocle, and a serious
      expression. The second was in his mid-thirties and looked like he
      had experienced as much stress in his life as a man five times his
      age. His robes were wrinkled as if he'd slept in them, but, judging
      by the dark bags under his eyes, that had been several days ago.
      His dark brown hair was prematurely streaked with silver, and he
      was drumming his fingers impatiently against the table.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are these precautions really necessary?" he asked irritably.
      "We're in a school, not a hostile nation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo looked him in the eye. "Yes. They are," he said. "The new
      headmaster hates me. <em class="calibre8">Hates</em> me. He wouldn't care that what
      we're doing here could save lives, and he certainly doesn't care
      about your positions in the Ministry. He'd throw you out and give
      me another month's detention, regardless of the consequences. He's
      got Lucius on his side, which—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which makes him untouchable, yes, we know," the witch said
      impatiently. "I'll be honest with you, boy. I'm only here because
      Albus Dumbledore called in a favour." She turned to face the wizard
      she'd brought with her. "And that means, Peasegood, that we follow
      his recommendations."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then why did you refuse my initial plan?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, Amelia
      Bones, sniffed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because sneaking in by concealing ourselves in the back of a
      hay wagon hardly seemed appropriate," she said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's always worked for me," Milo said. "But to each his
      own."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can we get on with this?" Peasegood asked, checking a pocket
      watch. "I have a wedding to get to in Wales."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh?" Bones asked. "Whose?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A Muggle lad and a werewolf's," Peasegood said. "It was messy.
      Nearly a hundred witnesses."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well then, boy," Bones said to Milo. "As you can see, we are on
      a schedule. If you could bring out the alleged amulets?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo pulled off his own Amulet of Protection from Evil and
      placed it on the table. Like most magic items, its physical
      appearance was generally unimportant, but this particular amulet
      took the form of a tiny kite shield of alternating
      silver-and-copper dangling from a solid steel chain. The last thing
      he wanted was something yanking it off in a scuffle. It was
      engraved with the Eye of Boccob, because anything in Milo's
      possession that couldn't double as a holy symbol in a pinch simply
      wasn't worth carrying. He was still keenly aware that Quirrell's
      vampires had yet to make an appearance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is an Amulet of Protection," Milo said. He decided to drop
      the 'from evil' on recommendation from Hannah, as it sounded a tad
      melodramatic for most governments. "It will never tarnish or age,
      the chain will resize to fit the neck of any wearer—and I do mean
      <em class="calibre8">any wearer</em>—it provides minor defences against physical and
      magical attacks from, well, from bad people and creatures, makes
      the wearer untouchable by creatures summoned into existence by
      magic," Milo wished he'd remembered that in his duel with Draco,
      who seemed awfully fond of summoning snakes. "And, last, and most
      importantly, provides continuous and complete protection against
      all forms of magic that exercise mental control over the wearer."
      Milo was aware that he was handing a potentially extremely powerful
      tool over to the Ministry, but he didn't see that he had much
      choice. He desperately needed the money; spell research was hardly
      cheap, and he was deeply in debt with Harry. The ability to easily
      block an Unforgivable Curse was probably his greatest advantage on
      the local wizards, and, as such, he could sell it for the greatest
      profit. Besides, the Ministry seemed to, basically, be the good
      guys. They were sometimes obtuse and obstructive, sure, but he
      doubted they'd ever actually be actively <em class="calibre8">hostile</em> to him.
      He'd considered putting a back door into the amulets he sold to the
      ministry—a simple matter of deliberately making each amulet a
      cursed item with the Dependent drawback (such as 'the item only
      works whenever nobody within 30 feet has said "Krund the Barbarian
      Teaches Spelling" in the last sixty seconds'), but he'd decided
      against it. Too many Ministry officials were powerful wizards or
      witches, and too many powerful wizards and witches could apparently
      read minds. He doubted they would respond positively to deception
      of that variety.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia Bones' mouth cracked into a brief smile, but Peasegood
      actually laughed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We've wasted our time here," Peasegood said, and stood to
      leave.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hold on," Bones said. "We've come this far. We should at least
      see this farce to its natural conclusion." Peasegood rolled his
      eyes and sat down, and Bones turned to look at Milo. "Do you know
      why I've brought Peasegood with me?" she asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shrugged. "I figured it had something to do with
      interdepartmental politics," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Amelia Bones said. "It's because he's the best wizard I
      know when it comes to mental magic. He's our top Obliviator because
      of it, and with good reason." She reached down, picked up the
      amulet, and looked at it closely. Then she shrugged and fastened it
      about her neck. She looked at Peasegood and nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fifteen," he said to her, drawing his wand.
      "<em class="calibre8">Obliviate</em>," he said with a quick flourish of his wand
      that seemed to be done entirely by muscle memory. "What number did
      I just tell you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fifteen," Bones answered. "Try again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Elephant. <em class="calibre8">Obliviate</em>. What animal—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Elephant."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"1492. <em class="calibre8">Obliviate</em>. What—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"1492."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On and on it went. Peasegood listed dozens of names of places
      and historical figures, of animals and vegetables and minerals, and
      of dates and numbers and colours. After the first ten or so, he
      frowned and cast each spell with more effort, more concentration,
      and more precision. After another twenty, he insisted Bones turn
      over her wand, close her eyes, and face the wall. Nothing he tried
      made any difference.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," he said eventually. "I'll bite. What did you do to my
      wand?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing," Bones said with a frown. "Still, all this proves is
      the amulet is protected with an extremely powerful Shield Charm.
      Difficult, but hardly earthshaking. Still, this is very impressive,
      especially for a second-year student. Come back when you're of age,
      and we'll see what you can do then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ms. Bones," Milo said with a touch of smugness, "when I said
      the amulet protects against continuous and complete protection
      against <em class="calibre8">all</em> forms of mental magic, I meant it. That amulet
      can go quite a bit further than Memory Charms."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones sighed. "Boy, I know what you're hinting at, and I can
      assure you that is quite impossible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We should test it," Peasegood said. Even he seemed surprised by
      his words. "I've never—<em class="calibre8">never</em>—seen a Shield Charm so
      handily defeat my magic before. Never. We should see how far this
      goes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones sighed. "Very well." Then she removed the amulet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Won't you need that?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Boy," she said, "Bellatrix Lestrange <em class="calibre8">herself</em> couldn't
      get me with the Imperius Curse. Peasegood is good, but—no
      offence—he's not Bellatrix, God rest her soul." Milo was surprised;
      most of the wizards and witches in this world (and in his own)
      avoided religion the way that optimizers avoided Endurance and
      Run.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No offence taken," Peasegood said. "I think the whole world
      gave a collective sigh of relief when she died last year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My point, boy, is that the only way for this amulet's alleged
      ability to block what I remind you is a theoretically unblockable
      curse is for us to cast it on <em class="calibre8">you</em>. Do you consent?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo nodded, fastening the amulet around his neck.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well. Arnold Peasegood, as head of the DMLE, I sanction
      the use of the Imperius Curse under the Responsible Use clause of
      the 1980 War Statute for the purposes of training and
      experimentation. I am legally obliged to remind you that misuse or
      abuse of this permission warrants an immediate life sentence in
      Azkaban. Do you understand?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I understand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well. Begin. Make him stand up and nothing else."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Peasegood looked at Milo and licked his lips nervously. "I'd
      hoped never to have to use this except against a fully trained
      wizard or witch." He took a deep breath. "<em class="calibre8">Imperio</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo yawned somewhat theatrically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Peasegood stared down at his wand in astonishment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did he resist?" she asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Peasegood said. He swallowed. "He didn't have to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones stared at him in astonishment, then up at Milo, then back
      at Peasegood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Bones came to grips with what had just happened, Milo calmly
      reached into his Belt of Hidden Pouches and drew a large, heavy
      canvas sack, which he upturned on the table.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Thirty identical amulets poured onto the table.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think," she said slowly, "that we should keep this quiet—for
      the moment. If Lucius knew what these were for, he could block the
      purchase. Besides," she grinned. "I want the next dark wizard who
      tries to bewitch an Auror to be taken by surprise. Just wish I
      could guarantee I was there to see it..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What followed was a negotiation. For almost the first time, Milo
      <em class="calibre8">didn't</em> regret prioritizing Charisma over Constitution at
      character creation, as it gave him a sorely-needed edge against the
      head of the DMLE, who bargained like a horse trader. She wanted
      them by the hundred, to equip every employee of the Ministry to
      begin with, and, eventually, the entire wizarding world, but Milo
      negotiated her down to a more reasonable number and a better price.
      Each amulet cost him two days of magical crafting (although his
      Homunculus, Cog, put in the actual hours), ten galleons' worth of
      salt, and a non-negligible amount of experience points.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That said, the gods themselves could hardly give him a better
      bargaining position. To them, these amulets represented complete
      protection against one of the greatest threats in the world. It was
      revolutionary. Game changing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To him, it was a first-level spell and a pile of salt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They were willing to pay a small fortune in gold for the
      necklaces (although, unfortunately, gold in this universe seemed to
      be quite a bit rarer and more valuable than gold in his). They
      eventually settled on twelve amulets a month, which left him enough
      time to work on items for himself and his party, at a hefty hundred
      galleons—equivalent in weight to six hundred and thirty gold
      pieces—per necklace. It was less than they were worth in his
      universe in terms of volume of gold, but factoring in the cheaper
      raw materials cost, the irritating and ubiquitous
      Adventurers-Sell-for-Half-Laws, and the relative value of gold,
      Milo figured he was coming out ahead by quite a bit. The first
      several months of that, however, would go to paying back Harry's
      generous loans over the last year and a bit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did I ever tell you that I had to bail that boy out of Muggle
      prison this summer?" Peasegood said to Bones as they left.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I must have missed that one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Funny story. Fortunately, nothing came of it..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Together, Fiona, Travis, and Hannigan had brought six eyes,
      which seemed about one one-hundredth as many as they would be
      needing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Self-stirring cauldrons. Eel's eyes. Potion bottles. Flying
      broomsticks (Fiona started feeling a bit self-conscious about the
      one in her hand). Wand shops. And... an ice cream parlour.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was closed, presumably because Fortescue had a cold. Bit of a
      let-down, actually.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This place looks right out of Tim Burton's fever dream," Travis
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"With a bit of the pirate base from <em class="calibre8">Hook</em> thrown in,"
      Fiona added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were buildings built on top of other buildings, inside
      other buildings, and in one notable case, upside-down and
      underneath another building. Individual shops and stalls followed
      no particular theme, having apparently been built up to several
      centuries apart. Iron Age huts and red-roofed Roman structures
      shared walls with wooden lean-tos and crooked Renaissance-era
      towers. Diagon Alley seemed to be as old as London. Older,
      maybe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This place is <em class="calibre8">not</em> up to code," Hannigan grumbled.
      "Pick a code. Any code. This place is <em class="calibre8">not up to it</em>. The
      whole lot ought to be condemned."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah," Travis stammered. He looked a bit pale.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes?" Hannigan asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That little old lady over there—the one outside the
      Apothecary—she, uh... The sign says she's selling dragon
      liver."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona and Hannigan stared where he pointed in stunned
      silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It... must be metaphorical," Fiona said. "Flavourful. Probably
      a local delicacy. Pub I used to go to in Glasgow had a drink they
      called Dragon's Breath. Must be like that." It must be. No way...
      no way could there be <em class="calibre8">actual dragons</em>. Magic was one thing,
      but <em class="calibre8">dragons</em>? Fiona was beginning to feel that they might
      be in a little bit over their heads.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Hannigan said. "What the Serg— er, what the witch
      civilian said. Let's carry on with our first objective. I mean
      errand. Our first errand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Near as they could tell, Diagon Alley was basically a single (if
      somewhat twisty) line without any major intersections or
      branches—except for one, which a black sign declared in black paint
      was called 'Knockturn Alley,' which, as police, they decided to
      avoid without significant backup. They had a sense for that sort of
      thing. In theory, this should have made finding their target—777
      Diagon Alley—a cinch. Just walk forwards as the numbers go up, or
      turn around if they go down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Unfortunately, the address numbers—those buildings which had
      them—seemed to be completely at random. A robes shop numbered '1'
      was directly adjacent to a wand shop whose address seemed to be
      composed of thirteen thirteens.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was while searching for the <em class="calibre8">Daily Prophet</em>'s office,
      their eyes sideways, up, and backwards searching for the address,
      that Fiona bumped into a child. He was maybe nine or ten years old,
      and had on a child-size robe with a floppy, wide hat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excuse me!" Fiona said, and stepped to move around him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whoa!" the boy said. "Nice broomstick! I've never seen one like
      it! Is it foreign?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona looked at the broom substitute she held in her hand. If
      she got out of this, she was keeping Sprocket on a dry food ration
      for a week as punishment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Foreign?" Fiona asked in her best Wicked Witch of the West
      voice. "It's from a place so far away it would addle your little
      mind to even <em class="calibre8">begin</em> to attempt to comprehend where it is!"
      Okay, so the line sounded way better in her head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bet it's Italian," the boy said. "And it's bewitched to look
      like a mop, too!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A middle-aged, anxious-looking witch hurried around a twist in
      the road.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oliver!" she called. "What did I tell you about wandering off?
      Come here." She turned to face Fiona. "Sorry, miss. He's always
      doing that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait!" Hannigan said as she turned to leave. He fished about in
      his robe pockets before producing a photograph. "Have you seen this
      boy?" he asked. "He has a distinctive scar, and may be in the
      company of a woman named Lily Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The witch looked at the picture in disbelief for a moment before
      rolling her eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, ha ha, very funny," she said, and made a face as if
      Hannigan had made a joke in particularly poor taste. "Have a nice
      day, then," and hustled off, her child in tow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was odd," Hannigan said after she left.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It took half an hour to find the <em class="calibre8">Prophet</em>'s office, a
      rather boring-looking square building nestled between an owl post
      office (that's right—owl post office) and a book store. Along the
      way, Hannigan accosted random passersby with his picture of Harry
      Potter with variations of the same questions. All seven of them
      thought it was some kind of joke.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wonder if I'm asking the wrong questions?" Hannigan mused. "Ah,
      well. That was objective two, in any case. On to objective one." He
      pushed open the plain glass and wood door to enter a plain-looking
      office. There were a few deceptively comfortable-looking chairs
      along the wall, with a few magazines for bored adults and some toys
      for bored children. In short, it was like every office Fiona had
      ever been in, which she felt just went to show, although she wasn't
      quite sure <em class="calibre8">what</em> it went to show.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A bored-looking witch sat behind the counter with her feet on
      the desk, reading a magazine called <em class="calibre8">Witch Weekly</em>. A
      handsome, blond man on the cover <em class="calibre8">winked</em> at her when she
      looked at it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"God, but that's weird," she muttered to herself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry?" The witch behind the counter said, although her
      tone indicated otherwise. "What did you want, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannigan stepped up to her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're here to take out a subscription," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," the woman said, holding out her palm. She hadn't taken
      her eyes off of the magazine. "That'll be one knut up front, and
      another per delivery."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry, did you say a <em class="calibre8">newt</em>?" Hannigan asked. Sure,
      eyes of newt were mentioned in <em class="calibre8">Hamlet</em>, but... seriously?
      If these wizards and witches used <em class="calibre8">actual newts</em> as
      currency, Fiona was going home and never leaving. A world where
      people used newts to buy newspapers was not a world Fiona wanted to
      take part in anymore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You deaf, mister?" the woman asked. "Not a <em class="calibre8">newt</em>, a
      <em class="calibre8">knut</em>. Kah-noot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Hannigan said. "I seem to be fresh out of those. I
      don't suppose you could direct me to—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gringotts is just a few minutes to the left," the lady said,
      pointing, unhelpfully, to the right.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, we'll just drop by... Gringotts... and return presently,"
      he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By process of deduction, they determined 'Gringotts,' whatever
      that was, was probably to the right, not the left, seeing as how
      that was the way they'd come from and they hadn't seen it.
      Probably. You never knew, in this place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Unlike the <em class="calibre8">Daily Prophet</em> headquarters, Gringotts was
      quite easy to spot. It was a white marble, ancient looking building
      with scarlet-and-gold banners. In addition to being a very pretty
      building, it was also obviously designed for a siege. The windows
      had steel bars over them, and the burnished bronze doors looked
      like they were actual, <em class="calibre8">solid</em> bronze. Fiona didn't doubt
      that, in addition to the merely physical defences, the building had
      its share of magical ones as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As she drew nearer, however, her attention was pulled from the
      building. In fact, it became very hard to notice anything at all,
      save for the small... individual standing in front of the
      doors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He (she? it?) was wearing pristine scarlet-and-gold livery,
      and... well. Fiona wasn't really looking at its (her? his?)
      clothes. The... thing... was small. Like, hobbit-sized small. That
      was where the resemblance ended. Rather than furry feet, a plump
      belly and a cheerful smile, this creature was kelp-green, covered
      in little warts and bumps, and below its upturned, pig-like nose
      was a scowl worthy of... worthy of... something really good at
      scowling. The wicked, hooked teeth definitely helped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Jesus <em class="calibre8">Christ</em>," Travis swore. "Is that a... an..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Orc?" Hannigan suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"More of a kobold, really," Travis said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, we should be able to take, like, a million of them each,
      right?" Fiona said. "I mean, the guys in the book could, and they
      didn't even have guns."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, well," Hannigan said. "Neither do we. Shall we?" With
      that, Hannigan walked determinedly over to the creature.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona swallowed and followed. Travis hesitated for a moment,
      then walked behind her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The three of them put on their most important, businesslike
      looks and walked confidently through the doors. Behind the bronze
      doors were another set, this one made of silver. Fiona marvelled at
      them. If they were pure silver, and solid, their value would be...
      incalculable. It didn't take long, however, for her instincts to
      kick in. <em class="calibre8">Nobody</em> had the kind of money to make doors out of
      silver and consider it worthwhile. Nobody legitimate, anyway. This,
      of course, begged the question: where the heck were these creatures
      getting their cash from?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another pair was standing just behind the silver doors.
      <em class="calibre8">Probably guards</em>, Fiona noted, taking into account their
      stance, their crossed arms, and their simultaneously suspicious and
      disregarding expression. <em class="calibre8">They have the look</em>. They weren't
      visibly armed, but it wasn't as if that meant anything. They were
      down the rabbit hole, now. The locals could have all <em class="calibre8">kinds</em>
      of weird powers. Heck, Fiona herself wasn't armed, but that hardly
      meant she wasn't dangerous, if it came to that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Travis let out a low whistle as they entered the next room, and
      Fiona could see why. It was huge. Like, St. Paul's cathedral huge.
      The floors and walls were of white marble, with a large, misty
      fountain in the centre of the room. Creatures literally beyond
      count—she stopped counting at seventy-eight, and didn't think she'd
      accounted for half—scurried about, looking busy. Several had
      handcarts piled with what she could only describe as treasure. Gold
      and silver in any combination of bullion, coins, jewelry, and
      ornaments you could name. There were also precious stones in
      abundance. Fiona had never seen anything she'd felt compelled to
      use the word 'jewel' to describe before she saw one of the little
      green fellows holding up a ruby the size of Sprocket's head. There
      was enough money in here to buy actual nations—and Fiona doubted
      this was the extent of it. Everything in this room was in transit
      from one place to another; massive doors leading to dark corridors
      surrounded them. Anything could be down there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If anything, the security around the place seemed
      <em class="calibre8">light</em>. Which meant Fiona had to be doubly on her
      guard—<em class="calibre8">something</em> was evidently protecting this place, and
      it was clearly enough to deter would-be thieves. Magical thieves,
      at that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't gawk," Hannigan said. "We'll only draw attention to
      ourselves."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They located a small line of ordinary-looking people organized
      by a velvet rope in one corner below a sign marked CURRENCY
      EXCHANGE. Guessing this was their destination, they formed up at
      the back of the line.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The people, most of whom were wearing simple street clothes,
      were handing the orc-kobold-thing money (mostly pounds, but some
      had francs or dollars) in exchange for coins of silver, gold, and
      bronze.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank goodness nobody told Goldfinger about this place," Travis
      murmured. "It makes Fort Knox look like a tin of pennies."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As their turn came up, Hannigan took a half step in front of
      them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excuse me, ah, sir," he said to the creature behind the
      counter, "how much for one knut?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The creature gave them a flat stare for a moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Serious customers only," it snarled. "Next!" it called.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait!" Hannigan said. The creature stopped and looked at him.
      Hannigan turned to Travis and Fiona. "Right, turn out your pockets,
      lads," he said. Travis sighed, and they pulled out their wallets.
      Between them, they had fifty-eight pounds, forty-four pence, and a
      Canadian dollar.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My sister lives in Montreal," Travis shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How many can we get for all of this?" Hannigan asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The creature's eyes flicked over it for an instant.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Eleven galleons, ten sickles, and fourteen knuts—after
      surcharge," he said. Either it was extremely talented at unit
      conversions, or it was making the numbers up completely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry, is he selling us a fleet of ships, farm equipment, and
      lizards?" Travis whispered to Fiona. The creature, however,
      evidently heard him. It rolled its eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Galleons," it said, holding up a shining gold coin. "Sickles,"
      it held up a slightly smaller silver coin. "And knuts," it held up
      a bronze coin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, of course," Hannigan said. "But could we get, hmm, three of
      those sickles in knuts?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona looked at the coins the creature counted out and thought
      for a moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So it's, what, about five quid to a galleon?" she asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said the creature, who was still counting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So they're not pure gold, then," she reasoned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The creature shot her a withering look that made Fiona
      reflexively shift her weight into a fighting stance. The thing had
      <em class="calibre8">malice</em> in its eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"None of your kind has ever seen purer," it snarled. "Or ever
      will."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannigan nudged her with his elbow and made silencing
      gestures.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait, hang on," she said. "That's way below the value of gold
      to pounds. So what's to stop these people from melting the coins
      down and selling them at enormous mark-up as raw bullion?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The creature stared at her as if she was a total imbecile. Its
      jaws moved as if it was trying to form words, but could not grasp
      the monumental stupidity of her question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would not recommend defacing goblin gold," was all it said.
      Fiona made a minor leap of intuition and concluded that if this was
      a bank stuffed with goblin gold and little green people, the little
      green people were probably goblins.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," Fiona said. "Just wondering."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They filled their pockets full of goblin gold, silver, and
      bronze and hurried out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I would just <em class="calibre8">love</em> to sic a couple of crown
      auditors on them," Hannigan said. "Who wants to bet they're not
      adhering to the Banking Act? And I bet they've <em class="calibre8">never</em> paid
      their taxes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No deal. Where'd they get all that gold, I wonder?" Travis
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probably hauled it out of Moria," Fiona muttered. "What do you
      reckon they're going to do with our money? They can't exactly walk
      down to the financial sector and invest it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can get pretty far just over the phone these days,"
      Hannigan said. "And they could always hire a human to do it for
      them, in any case."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They dropped by the <em class="calibre8">Daily Prophet</em> again and took out a
      subscription for Fiona's flat (she was the only one of the three
      who lived alone, and as such wouldn't have to explain the avian
      post to her family/roommates, except Sprocket, who Fiona thought
      would have no more objection to daily owl delivery than she would
      to daily pizza delivery).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One last thing," Hannigan said to the witch after they'd filled
      out the forms (with quills on parchment, not that Fiona was
      terribly surprised. She doubted anything could surprise her
      anymore.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The witch looked up from her magazine for the first time, stared
      him dead in the eye, and blew an enormous pink bubble of gum. It
      popped, echoing through the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes?" she asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What can you tell me about this boy?" Hannigan held up the
      photograph.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The witch stared at it, then pointed at the wall behind them. On
      the wall was a large poster:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">THE BOY WHO LIVED, a FACTUAL and ENTERTAINING biography of HARRY
      POTTER: available all places books are sold.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona, Travis, and Hannigan said words then that small children
      ought not to hear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Book store next?" Hannigan asked. Not waiting for a response,
      he answered himself. "Book store next."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Flourish and Botts was, well, a bookshop. Frankly, after the
      goblin bank, it was disappointingly mundane. Sure, the
      <em class="calibre8">subject</em> of the books was extraordinary—and the books
      themselves were something to see; many of them were leather bound
      with beautifully embossed titles—but, all in all, it was sort of a
      letdown.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That handsome man from the magazine cover, apparently named
      Gilderoy Lockhart, was on posters all over the place, advertising
      his autobiography, <em class="calibre8">Magical Me</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Looks a bit like Kenneth Branagh, don't you think?" Fiona
      mused, staring at a life-size portrait of him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nah," Hannigan said. "He must be, what, ten years older than
      Kenneth Branagh."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They split up to cover the bookstore as quickly as possible.
      They started with every book on Harry Potter they could find—and
      there were a surprisingly large number, for a missing
      twelve-year-old—threw in a couple of books on wizarding history (it
      was a sign of the things she had seen that day that Fiona did
      raised no objections to the apparent existence of the word
      'wizarding'), and a more-or-less random selection of spellbooks.
      The last was Fiona's idea. If they could learn what these wizards
      were capable of, they could more adequately develop
      counter-measures. Against the darkness of the unknown, the only
      light is knowledge.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Upon tallying the prices, they put back several of the books on
      Harry Potter, before leaving with their pockets considerably
      heavier but decided less clink-y.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once outside, Hannigan stopped and took a deep, satisfied
      breath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Savour this moment, lads. Er, lad. And lady. It's not every day
      that you can just go to a bookstore and buy critical information in
      your investigation for forty quid and change."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's next, then?" Fiona asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We head home and do a little homework," Hannigan said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But what if we missed something?" Travis said. "There's loads
      here we haven't even looked at, yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannigan grinned broadly. "That's the best part, isn't it?" he
      said. "We can just walk right in here. Aside from the magic, do you
      see any security? Me neither. And besides," he added, "if anything
      comes up, Fiona here will be the first to know. She's on their
      <em class="calibre8">mailing list</em>."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
