<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 50: CC 17: Remedial Divinations, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover f...</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s13" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 17: Remedial Divinations</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">The door to the Hog's Head Inn slammed shut behind the
      black-hooded newcomer, causing icicles to fall from the roof
      outside. The other patrons gave the newcomer, ahem, <em class="calibre8">icy</em>
      glares as the wave of cold air hit them, though the roaring hearth
      soon made them forget their climatological worries. The newcomer,
      androgynous and unidentifiable beneath the loose, silk robe looked
      around the inn, taking in the handful of chilled patrons, the
      grizzled, aged landlord, the ancient oak tables and bar. It was
      impossible to be certain without seeing his or her face, but
      something about the newcomer's bearing radiated contempt.
      Rapidly-melting snow was brushed away by black-gloved hands,
      falling to the floor with not a trace of concern for the
      innkeeper's floorboards, and the newcomer sat down at the bar next
      to another mysterious, black-robed stranger. The similarities began
      and ended at the colour of their wardrobes and their unidentified
      nature. Where the first robed figure's clothes were immaculate,
      tailored, and very, <em class="calibre8">very</em> expensive, the second was shabby.
      The second's robes were battered, faded black canvas spotted with
      poorly sewn-on patches of subtly different shades and materials
      from the base cloth, which was hardly visible. His or her robes
      were a tattered mess at the hem, as if they had been walked on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The landlord passed each of them a firewhisky without a word.
      This sort of behaviour was not uncommon at the Hog's Head Inn.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It appears," the first said in a slow, light drawl, "That
      things are going rather <em class="calibre8">well</em> for you." The newcomer
      somehow managed to, without any facial expression whatsoever,
      convey a sneer simply with the cadence and delivery.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well enough," the other said. This one didn't need any fancy
      oratorical tricks. The shrug was sufficient.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The newcomer took a sip of firewhisky. A brief flash of long,
      white-blond hair was visible as the hood tilted back slightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Rather... <em class="calibre8">impressive</em>, don't you think? Your sudden
      ascent, that is," the newcomer pushed. "Almost as if you had...
      assistance."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I suppose we both know who to thank for that 'assistance.'"
      The stranger left the firewhisky sitting where the landlord had
      placed it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," the newcomer drawled. "We do, at that." The newcomer left
      that hanging in the air for a moment before continuing. "I must
      say," the newcomer said, "that I'm rather surprised by you. You
      appear to be keeping <em class="calibre8">secrets</em>. You know how I feel about...
      <em class="calibre8">secrets</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a loaded silence for several seconds. Then, something
      slight but significant changed in the stranger's posture. A gloved
      hand shot out from under the tattered robes, and seized the
      firewhisky glass. A moment later, it was slammed down on the table.
      Empty.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean it <em class="calibre8">wasn't you</em>?" the stranger said, choking
      slightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It wasn't <em class="calibre8">you</em>?" the newcomer gasped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two of them stared at each other from under their hoods for
      a tense second.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have to—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Questions to ask—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In an instant, their bar stools had tumbled to the ground and
      both were gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Buggers didn't pay," the landlord grumbled, watching the door
      slam shut behind them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The scheduling of Quidditch practice times had always been a
      continual problem at Hogwarts. It tended to rain more-or-less three
      seasons a year at Hogwarts, and those three seasons, unfortunately,
      corresponded very closely to the school term. The rare dry day that
      rolled around every few weeks was highly prized by Quidditch
      players of all houses. However, with four teams and only one pitch,
      there was invariably something of a squabble for who would be the
      one to get the field.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Various headmasters over the years had different solutions to
      this problem. Most solutions involved either random chance, such as
      a flipped sickle (which has the unexpected problem of being hardly
      random at all. Keep in mind: actual magic), or requiring teams to
      book the field ahead of time on a first-come-first-serve basis (a
      practice favoured by Dumbledore), or even by sharing the pitch
      between multiple opposed teams at once (this 'hardly ever' resulted
      in 'accidental' injuries).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The newly-raised Headmaster Snape had his own, original take on
      the matter. He solved the problem by means of a rotating schedule
      in order to guarantee fairness for everyone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This announcement caused something of an uproar in the
      Gryffindor Common Room, which was starting to smell (Snape had cut
      off House Elf privileges the week prior in order to 'build
      character'), as the Gryffindors had certain objections to this new
      organizational scheme.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Seven seventy-one. What's the problem this time?" Milo asked
      distractedly from a couch. He was one of a very few number of
      Gryffindors who did not care one whit for Quidditch, nor,
      consequently, even half a whit for the logistics of its players'
      skill grinding. While they fretted about inconsequential matters,
      Milo was busy performing magic upon an ordinary-looking bucket.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Snape," Harry spat through clenched teeth. It said something of
      the general morale of House Gryffindor that not even Hermione was
      willing to call out his failure to prefix 'Professor' to the
      Headmaster's name, "has the pitch rotating between all of the
      houses."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo narrowed his eyes suspiciously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hold your hippogriffs," Harry said. "Fifty-four."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's the problem with the rotation?" Milo asked, scratching
      the Eye of Boccob onto the cheap tin bucket.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," Harry said, "today, Hufflepuff has the pitch. Tomorrow
      it's Slytherin. Next it's Ravenclaw."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then Gryffindor?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry said. "Then Slytherin. <em class="calibre8">Then</em> Gryffindor.
      Then Slytherin again. Then Ravenclaw. Then Slytherin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah," Milo said in understanding as he put the finishing touches
      on the Wavy Eyebrow of Boccob. "Well, it's a problem easily
      solved."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do you figure?" Harry asked, sitting dejectedly beside him
      on the sofa.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo held the bucket on the ground with both feet and grabbed
      the handle with his hands."We break into Snape's office, steal some
      Polyjuice, kidnap the entire Slytherin team, and you play in
      disguise." With a hefty pull, he yanked the handle clean off the
      bucket. "Of course," he added, "we'll have to kill them afterwards,
      or they'll talk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're kidding, right?" Harry asked, slightly
      apprehensively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"'Course," Milo said. "We can just steal their memories after. I
      know a guy." The Memory Charm was yet another example of Arcane
      Magic and Wanded Magic diverging. If Milo ever wanted to erase
      someone's memory, he'd have to first become a mighty Bard (as if)
      and even then could only modify up to five minutes of memory per
      day—and that was only because he had, for some reason, prioritized
      Charisma over Constitution at character creation. Milo was still
      kicking himself over that particularly <em class="calibre8">inspired</em>
      decision.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Those goons at the Ministry, on the other hand, could literally
      just wave their wands and magically erase or alter, as far as Milo
      could tell, any amount of memory they wanted. Poof, gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ha," Harry said flatly. "Ha, ha." He glanced at Milo, who was
      replacing the handle with a leather strap. "That looks like a
      Quidditch chinstrap," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's hardly surprising," Milo responded, threading one end of
      the chinstrap through a hole he'd drilled in the bucket.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned. "That <em class="calibre8">is</em> a Quidditch chinstrap."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yup," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's emerald green eyes narrowed. "That's <em class="calibre8">my</em>
      Quidditch chinstrap."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yup," Milo said. "But don't worry; you won't be needing yours
      anymore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh?" Harry asked in a dangerous tone of voice. "And why is
      that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I overheard Malfoy at breakfast. Snape's going to ban safety
      gear for future matches. He says the rate of serious injuries has
      been so low since the gear was introduced that it's
      unnecessary."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But the rate is only low <em class="calibre8">because</em> we're wearing
      padding!" Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Snape's not <em class="calibre8">entirely</em> unreasonable," Milo said. "He
      said that any players who are new to the team this year will still
      wear padding."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned. "That doesn't sound too... Oh." After the
      Petrification of the majority of the Slytherin Quidditch team,
      almost every single player was a new recruit. Harry punched the
      scarlet couch in frustration. Slytherin was the <em class="calibre8">only</em> team
      with new players this year. "This is ridiculous!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then there's good news," Milo said. "Snape's also going to be
      introducing a complaint-and-suggestion box. Have a complaint or
      suggestion for the administration, you write it on a slip of
      parchment and drop it in the box."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked. "Seriously?" he asked. "That doesn't sound like
      Snape at all. That's <em class="calibre8">actually</em> a good idea." He frowned.
      "What's the catch?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Remember last year when Hannah discovered a secret, slippery
      passage that dumps you in the lake?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah. First years have been using it as a waterslide."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Guess where the box empties into." Milo wrapped the
      bucket-with-chinstrap up in thick brown postal paper. "Mind if I
      borrow Hedge Witch?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hedwig."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is there any other kind?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of wig, that is. Any other kind of wig."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you talking about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, it's not like you could have a foot wig or a shoulder
      wig, could you? I mean, every wig <em class="calibre8">I've</em> ever heard of goes
      on your head. So calling him—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—Head Wig seems a bit redundant." Milo scribbled 'COG, THE
      BURROW, UNITED KINGDOM, PRIME MATERIAL PLANE' on the package.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed, covering his face with his hands. "Yes," he said.
      "Yes, you can borrow Hedwig."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cool," Milo said. "Oh, and before I forget—" he tossed Harry a
      heavy sack that clinked in a deliciously metallic manner. "That's
      the first quarter. I'll get you the rest by June."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked in genuine surprise and stared at the money.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did you— no, I suppose I probably don't want to know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo looked around the room suspiciously. Everyone's attention
      was focused complaining ineffectually about Snape's latest
      announcement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Meet me in the War Room in twenty," he whispered, tucking the
      wrapped bucket into his belt for later. "Spread the word, but don't
      all leave as one group."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know the drill," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Twenty-odd minutes later, Harry, Ron, and Hermione filed one by
      one into the empty classroom Milo had appropriated behind the tree
      he'd created last year. In addition to being concealed and
      inconvenient to get to, the room had a few magical defenses Milo
      had set up. The most powerful defense, the one that would
      absolutely guarantee their privacy for the indefinite future, was
      the hastily-scrawled sign that hung from the door, reading:
      REMEDIAL DIVINATIONS.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fifteen-thousand, five-hundred and fifty-six," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Zero," Hermione replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fifty-five," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone stared at Ron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah," he said. "A hundred and six? No, wait, um..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione and Harry moved their hands in the general direction of
      their wands. Milo shook his hands out of his sleeves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A billion!" Ron said. "I <em class="calibre8">know</em> I haven't used that one
      yet. It's just hard keeping track."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everybody relaxed. Since Death Eaters had used Polyjuice to
      disguise themselves as Gryffindors, paranoia had been running
      high—paranoia actively encouraged by Milo himself. Paranoia was the
      last and best defence against the DM (Detrimental Meddler). To that
      end, they'd created their code: upon meeting another member of
      their group, say a number. Any number, as long as it wasn't one
      you'd already used. The idea was that any infiltrator listening to
      them would either think it was an elaborate code and waste valuable
      time trying to crack it, or that they would, in their confusion,
      reuse a number. It was far from perfect, but it was the best Milo
      had been able to think up that would be simple enough for them all
      to get right reliably.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We have a Defence exam tomorrow," Hermione said. "We should all
      be revising. Why did you call us here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think it's been long enough that we can be pretty much
      certain," Milo said. "The Heir of Slytherin—or, at least the
      relevant one—is in Lucius' camp. The only open question is
      <em class="calibre8">who</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do you figure?" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Other than that it's blindingly obvious?" Ron scoffed. "The
      Heir is as Slytherin is can be, Lucius is as Slytherin as can be.
      The Heir hates Muggle borns, Lucius hates Muggle borns. If so,
      fact-oh."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione chortled under her breath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Ron asked defensively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry leaned over to Ron and whispered, "it's <em class="calibre8">ipso
      facto</em>, Ron."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But that sounds like a spell," he said. "Is it a spell?" Ron's
      face paled slightly. "What if it's a spell of persuasion," he said,
      "and that's why, whenever anyone says it, what they said sounds so
      reasonable!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Moving right along," Milo said, trying to regain control of the
      conversation. Honestly, it was like herding cats sometimes. "Ron's
      already laid out the core of the evidence, but there's a bit more
      to it. Snape is Lucius's right-hand man in Hogwarts, and as soon as
      Snape took over, the attacks miraculously stopped."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned. "You mean you don't think the attacks were
      directed at Muggle borns?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course they weren't," Milo said. "Slytherin's monster took
      out basically the entire Slytherin Quidditch team, and they were
      pretty much all pure- or half-blooded, and Muggle-haters to boot.
      That's not exactly behaviour consistent with an agenda of ridding
      the world of Muggle borns, is it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I always sort of figured the monster was <em class="calibre8">going</em> for
      some Muggle borns, but kept running into other people instead,"
      Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what," asked Ron, "after Petrifying all witnesses, it just
      gave up and ran back into its hole? No, I'm starting to think
      Milo's right. If the monster wanted to get Muggle borns, there's
      not much anyone could do to stop it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How long do you think it would stay secret if it did that?"
      Hermione asked. "People would discover it pretty quickly if it gave
      up on stealth altogether."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Ron said, "but then what? I mean, it took
      <em class="calibre8">McGonagall</em> in a fair fight. McGonagall!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo coughed involuntarily. He hadn't told them that it was
      largely his fault McGonagall had been Petrified, and had no
      intention of doing so.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe it just can't tell the difference?" Hermione said. "It
      could be that all humans look pretty much the same to it. I mean,
      if it Petrifies with a look, it probably hasn't had much in the way
      of social interaction."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Could be," Milo said. "But then I doubt Slytherin would have
      picked it to be his monster with the specific aim of ridding the
      school of undesirables. Now, what is it that Draco always
      says?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"'He started it, Professor!'" Ron suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"'When my <em class="calibre8">father</em> hears about this, Potter, he'll—'"
      Harry said, then frowned. "I don't know what comes next. He always
      gets cut off somehow. I wonder if <em class="calibre8">he</em> even knows what his
      father will do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"'Father always said that Dumbledore was the worst thing that
      ever happened to this place,'" Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In one," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you think Dumbledore was the target, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The entire old administration," Milo said. "Lucius couldn't get
      Dumbledore out because he had too many friends on the board and in
      the Ministry. There's too much respect for him. But by Petrifying
      an entire group of students right under Dumbledore's nose, he
      disgraced him. The fact that the students all had rich, influential
      parents likely didn't hurt. The Heir got Dumbledore sacked and
      nearly killed McGonagall, leaving Snape in charge, and poof! No
      more attacks. How long do you think it'll be till they give him a
      medal for saving the school? Order of Murlynd, or whatever. So the
      Heir of Slytherin is probably Lucius, Snape, Draco, or another
      Slytherin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or another disguised Death Eater," Harry said. "Or one of the
      same ones from before, which you let go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why <em class="calibre8">did</em> you let them go, anyway?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shrugged uncomfortably. It had seemed to make so much sense
      at the time. Clearly, this world was dulling his edge. He blamed
      homework. "I still haven't had any luck scrying the Heir of
      Slytherin, despite Hermione's clever workaround. We might have to
      resort to more conventional methods to determine who it is,
      precisely."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What if there is no Heir of Slytherin?" Hermione suggested, at
      the same time that Ron said "Bet it's Draco."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean, Hermione?" Harry asked. "If there's no heir,
      then who's controlling the monster?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione shrugged. "What if it doesn't have to be Slytherin's
      actual, literal heir? What if access to the Chamber of Secrets
      isn't based off of what you are, but what you <em class="calibre8">know</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A password, then?" Milo suggested. "Handed down the family
      line?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Could be, or even the directions. You don't need a password if
      nobody else can even find the place."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know, Hermione," Ron said. "I think you'd need to do
      more than just hide it. Fred and George have found dozens of
      'secret' passages and rooms over the years. <em class="calibre8">Nobody's</em> found
      the Chamber. It can't <em class="calibre8">just</em> be hidden."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Point," Hermione acknowledged. "But regardless, what I'm
      getting at is it doesn't have to be his <em class="calibre8">actual</em> heir. Just
      someone who knows what Slytherin knew. That's why Milo's magic
      hasn't been able to find him or her. He's been targeting the Heir
      of Slytherin specifically."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So it could be anyone?" Harry said. "Anyone at all?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's words hung in the air as everyone realized how hopeless
      the situation was. They'd come all this way, and they still had
      seemingly nothing to go on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A Parselmouth," Milo said suddenly. "Whoever's controlling the
      Monster is a Parselmouth. It spoke to McGonagall and me in
      Parseltongue. And Harry was the only one who heard it speak in the
      Duelling Club last month."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How'd you know it was Parseltongue?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maaaaagic," Milo said, wiggling his fingers in the air. "It's
      almost as if we were all wizards or something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione coughed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And witch," Milo added quickly. "Wizards and witch."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So..." Ron said thoughtfully. "Any way we can sort out who in
      this school is secretly a Parselmouth?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shrugged. "Who cares?" he said. "I think if there's one
      point Hermione's made, it's that we're focussing all of our
      attention on the wrong person. What I say we do is we find the
      monster, and hit it with everything we've got. Our mysterious foe
      loses his cat's paw, and either gives up or comes out into the open
      to do it himself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what have we got, exactly?" Hermione asked. "The three of
      us can just about manage Stunners and Shield charms, but I doubt
      either of those will be much good against a giant, evil monster
      that we can presume is resistant to magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fair point," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That one went a little fast for me," Harry confessed. "Why do
      we know it's resistant to magic?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because McGonagall transfigured knives and fired them at it,"
      Hermione said. "The knives were real, physical objects, and only
      had to contend with the monster's physical defenses. If she could
      have used magic, she would have Stunned it—or killed it outright.
      The Forbidden Curses are only Forbidden against humans, after
      all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Reeeeeeally," Milo said thoughtfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">No</em>," Hermione said forcefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. No mind-slaved armies of unicorns or goblins or
      acromantulas."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What I don't understand is why the Ministry hasn't combed this
      place with hit wizards or people from the Department of Regulation
      and Control of Magical Creatures or something," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probably Lucius keeping them out," Hermione answered. "Pulling
      strings at the Ministry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo snorted. "He should grow a goatee. He's beginning to remind
      me of someone back home." He wondered how Myra (City of light! City
      of <em class="calibre8">Magic</em>!) was faring in his absence, and realized it had
      been over a month since he'd thought of home. He was surprised at
      how little he missed it. They didn't have anything <em class="calibre8">like</em>
      Every Flavoured Beans, there. Just the thought sent his mouth
      watering.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Idly, he popped an Every-Flavoured Bean into his mouth. He
      didn't recognize the sharp, tangy flavour—he hardly ever did,
      barely knowing the flavour of any real foods to compare it with—but
      enjoyed it nonetheless, if only for the novelty.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What <em class="calibre8">do</em> we know about Slytherin's monster?" Harry
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Loads," Milo said. "But somehow, not enough to identify it in
      <em class="calibre8">any</em> reference book. Believe me; I've tried. It speaks
      Parseltongue, so it's probably some kind of snake; it has fangs and
      venom, fitting with the snake theme; it's resistant to magic; it
      can Petrify with a look, but it's not a Medusa. Oh, and
      Mordenkainen assures me it smells <em class="calibre8">terrible</em>. Turns out
      there aren't many things that can cause Petrification—your kind,
      not mine—on a gaze attack around here. They mostly just kill
      people, or turn them to stone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They spent most of the next three hours debating the possible
      identity of Slytherin's Monster, all without making any progress.
      Eventually, fed up with the futility of it, they gave up and headed
      to the Great Hall for dinner.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo lagged behind the rest of the group, frustrated. He
      couldn't believe how little progress they'd made. That he'd
      made.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was this place. It had dulled his edge. There was no other
      explanation. Between the pointless classes and the delicious food
      and the soft mattresses, he'd lost sight of what was important.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He did have one more clue he could follow. He knew that, but
      he'd felt strangely resistant to the idea. The feeling was a
      stranger to him, but, when it came down to it, so were most.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He left the group and made for the Hospital Wing. He waited
      outside the door behind a suit of armour for a few minutes until
      Madam Pomfrey left for her evening meal.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo crept into the room, surprised to find it absent of one of
      its most permanent residents. Even his bags were gone. Neville
      Longbottom, it seemed, had managed to make it a whole day without
      getting some kind of injury.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He found McGonagall where he left her on the hospital bed, his
      mirror still clutched in her hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo gently placed one hand over her injury, and, with the
      other, drew his other mirror from his belt. This one, of
      highly-polished silver, had a far more specialized purpose than
      looking around corners without risking a headshot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Scry,</em>" he whispered, gazing intently into the
      mirror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His reflection vanished from the mirror's surface. For an
      instant, Milo got the impression of slick green scales in a dark
      room. A moment later it was gone, the surface of the mirror broken
      as if someone had taken a light mace to it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Guess I should have expected that," he muttered, remembering
      what had happened to his <em class="calibre8">Arcane Eye</em>. "<em class="calibre8">Mending</em>,"
      he muttered, and the cracks were gone as if they had never
      been.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was all so frustrating. This monster seemed to be resistant
      to Milo's best methods of magical sleuthing. He hadn't had any luck
      finding any of the missing students, either. <em class="calibre8">Circle Dance</em>
      and <em class="calibre8">Scrying</em> had both failed outright, as if they'd been
      blocked. It seemed the Death Eaters had found some way to prevent
      their victims from being located magically. Maybe Milo really
      <em class="calibre8">did</em> need remedial Divinations.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But if you couldn't find someone with magic, how <em class="calibre8">were</em>
      you supposed to do it?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We got one," Hannigan said, slamming the phone into the
      receiver triumphantly. "Patrol officer up in London made a positive
      ID on one 'Amycus Carrow' at a supermarket. Tailed him back to a
      residence he seems holed up. He's ours now; all we have to do is go
      and get him." It had been a simple, yet time-consuming, matter to
      cross-reference the wizard's histories on the 'Wizarding War' with
      case files from the '81—most of which were dropped under rather
      suspect scenarios—and come up with a list of twenty-odd suspected
      murderers. Now that they had relatively concrete evidence of magic
      in the form of the <em class="calibre8">Daily Prophet</em>'s moving pictures,
      Hannigan had been getting a few of his friends still sore from the
      1981 murders on board with the investigation. They'd been
      unofficially passing hints on possible positions of the culprits.
      Their books on the wizard's history implied that some of them had
      already been tried in secret wizard court and sent to a secret
      wizard prison, but that most of them were still at large.
      Apparently the wizards' judicial system was even more porous than
      the regular one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A supermarket?" Fiona asked. "Really?" She had a hard time
      imagining an evil wizard at a place as mundane as a supermarket,
      but, on the other hand, she supposed everyone had to eat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Was he the one that did the Petersons?" Travis asked, flipping
      through his notebook. "And the Lancasters. And the Walkers, too."
      He gave out a low whistle, reading the notes he'd made from the
      wizards' books. "He got a bunch of <em class="calibre8">their</em> folk, too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My counterpart in London wants to go in with a Firearms Unit
      and arrest him, but I persuaded him to wait for us. Get your coats
      on, both of you. You've been reading up on their abilities,"
      Hannigan said to Fiona as they suited up. "How would you take
      him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A high-powered rifle from three streets away," Fiona said
      seriously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps I should have specified," Hannigan said. "In this
      hypothetical scenario, do remember you're a copper."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then I'd shoot him and take the fall for it after. They have
      spells that kill, spells that control, spells that torture, and
      spells that protect."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Even from bullets?" Travis asked as they left the station into
      the bitter cold and heavy snow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No clue," Fiona said. "The spellbook didn't say. Frankly, I
      don't think they even considered it. They don't seem to think of us
      as much of a threat. Still, we should assume they can."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannigan scratched his chin. He hadn't shaved in days, and Fiona
      doubted he'd slept more than a few hours a night, either. She
      couldn't remember the last time she'd seen him without a mug of
      cheap, black coffee in hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't we have anything going for us?" he asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Some," Fiona said. "They need a wand to do any magic at all, so
      if we can keep him from drawing, he's only as dangerous as you or
      I."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Travis made a derisive snort. "That I doubt," he said. "As
      dangerous as me, maybe, but I bet he doesn't know kung-fu."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aikido," Fiona corrected him, "and we shouldn't assume he
      doesn't. Also, he needs to be able to speak to cast, and it seems
      to take a few seconds to get a spell off."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So it's like a gun and body armour," Travis said, "but a little
      worse? What's so scary about that? We get the blue berets to toss a
      handful of flashbangs through the window, daze the people inside
      too much to even think about bloody witchcraft, batter down the
      door and cuff everyone in a Hallowe'en costume."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not finished yet," Fiona said. "They can also
      teleport."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannigan spat coffee onto the snow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Like on bleeding <em class="calibre8">Star Trek</em>?" he asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pretty much," Fiona said. "To them, its equivalent to getting a
      driver's license. Worst of all, it didn't say if they needed a wand
      or not to do it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well that's just bloody great," he said. "How the bloody hell
      do we bloody arrest a person who can just bloody teleport out of
      the bloody station?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can't," Fiona said simply. "Ergo, a high-powered rifle from
      three streets away."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or we give him an incentive," Travis suggested. "A reason to do
      what we want him to do. To not leave."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do we have that he wants?" Hannigan asked. "He can just
      beam himself away and come back with half a dozen of his guys and
      make us all forget. Or kill us, more likely."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Secrecy," Travis said. "We tell him if he does anything spooky,
      we send everything we have to the Guardian. Evil wizard or no, he
      wouldn't want that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona gave a low whistle. "Are we really prepared to do that?"
      she asked. "That could be big. Like, world-changing big."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ethical debate later," Hannigan said as they arrived at his
      car. "First, we have to nick him."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
