<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 39: CC 6: Whitewashed Secrets, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 6: Whitewashed Secrets</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Notes:</strong> I noticed today that fanfiction
      lets you make a cover image for your story, so I made one in about
      30 seconds on the gimp. It's not very good. If anyone wants to make
      a better one (really, almost anything would be better) just let me
      know.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There's some stuff happening next week, so the next chapter will
      be short and/or late.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Today's Character Sheet:</strong> myth-weavers
      com/sheetview php?sheetid=586163</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo slipped through the doors to Lockhart's office, aware that
      he would be largely helpless if the famous wizard had left any
      magical traps in case of intruders. While Milo's instincts told him
      this was unlikely—most magical traps he could name took hours or
      days to set up, and Lockhart had only just arrived at the school—he
      reminded himself that wanded magic could at times be unpredictable.
      Not that there was really much he could do about it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He wasn't certain what he expected to find, which, in his
      experience, was generally a good enough reason to investigate
      something.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While Lockhart appeared to have only been in this office long
      enough to drop off his luggage (or, more likely, had a fan or house
      elf carry it for him), there was already a pile of mail in the
      centre of the floor that reached Milo's shoulders. <em class="calibre8">No wonder
      the employees at the owl post office looked so stressed</em>, Milo
      thought. <em class="calibre8">Probably half the mail in magical Britain goes to
      Lockhart</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Scholar's Touch</em>," Milo muttered, tapping eight letters
      more-or-less at random. All eight were fan mail with no discernible
      secret code (of which Milo was something of an expert, considering
      all of his Ranks in the frustratingly-underused Decipher Script
      skill. He hadn't yet found anything worth deciphering since he
      <em class="calibre8">brilliantly</em> deduced that 'Erised' was 'Desire' written
      back-to-front). Still, that wasn't to say that there
      <em class="calibre8">wasn't</em> something incriminating in there
      <em class="calibre8">somewhere</em>. However, it would take all of Milo's magic for
      <em class="calibre8">weeks</em> to Scholar's Touch the whole pile—not to mention all
      the library books he still had to read.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was not to say that Milo was out of tricks, however.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Spontaneous Search</em>, <em class="calibre8">Master's Touch</em>." The two
      spells together allowed him to thoroughly search Lockhart's entire
      office in the blink of an eye, much as he had done to help Neville
      find his toad the first time he'd boarded the Hogwarts'
      Express.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This time, instead of discovering a toad, Milo was presented
      with a catalogue of all of the Defence Professor's worldly
      possessions; unfortunately, nothing was terribly suspicious except
      for the <em class="calibre8">staggering</em> number of mirrors and pictures of
      himself that the professor had brought with him. All that
      confirmed, however, was that Lockhart was unlikely to be a vampire
      (unless, of course, this was a piece of cunning misinformation).
      Perhaps Mordy could have smelled something, but Milo had left him
      in the Great Hall to keep an eye on the Sorting for him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dammit!" Milo muttered. He was so sure that he was on to
      something, sneaking here. He was beyond desperation at this point.
      He <em class="calibre8">had</em> to know what was happening or it would drive him
      mad. "<em class="calibre8">Detect Weaponry</em>, <em class="calibre8">Treasure Scent</em>, <em class="calibre8">Locate
      Water</em>, <em class="calibre8">Locate City</em>, <em class="calibre8">Detect Ship</em>." He knew he
      was stretching probability there towards the end, but after each
      successive lack of suspicious results, he cast every type of spell
      he could think of that could tell him <em class="calibre8">anything</em>. All he
      succeeded in, however, was discovering that the silver frames of
      Lockhart's portraits were false and that Flitwick, whose office was
      nearby, was the proud owner of a model man-of-war.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was then that the door opened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo, his heart racing, pressed himself as flatly up against the
      wall as he could, counting on his <em class="calibre8">Invisibility</em> to hide
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo felt his breath catch as the Potions Master skulked into
      the office. The Potions Master peered around suspiciously, then
      closed the door behind him. He took a quick look around, his eyes
      lingering on the pile of fan correspondence and his mouth twisted
      into a sneer of contempt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once he appeared convinced that nobody was present, he drew his
      wand. Milo tensed up, readying himself (but not Readying; he'd
      learned his lesson) to react quickly and decisively, if necessary.
      He'd had enough unfortunate encounters with the professor as it
      stood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape muttered the incantation to a spell that Milo couldn't
      catch, aiming his wand at the pile of Lockhart's luggage. The bags
      and cases unbuttoned, unzipped, and unlatched themselves (as
      appropriate), and their contents floated up into the air, all
      clearly visible. Snape ran his eyes over the clothes, paintings,
      various hair products, and books—mostly copies of his
      autobiography, <em class="calibre8">Magical Me</em>—before shoving them back into
      the cases with magic. While they had been quite neatly sorted and
      folded initially, Snape's spell left them a jumbled mess. The bags
      and cases buttoned, zipped, and latched themselves (as appropriate)
      before returning to their approximate locations. Evidently
      disappointed, Snape turned and left, his black cloak trailing
      behind him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Phew," Milo said, releasing his breath. "That was close." He
      waited for about a minute, then left as well. With his handle on
      the door, Milo gave the room one last look, knowing it was largely
      futile. Anything hiding in there that had escaped his Divinations
      would have to have been hidden by an individual of unrivalled
      skill, if not the gods themselves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few minutes after he heard Milo leave, George strolled out of
      Lockhart's office casually. Shortly after, a large number of
      dungbombs detonated simultaneously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Judging by the crowds leaving the Great Hall, Milo had missed
      the Sorting Ceremony altogether. While his stomach disagreed, Milo
      considered it a price well worth paying. He hadn't discovered much
      about Lockhart—except that Snape <em class="calibre8">also</em> considered him
      suspect. Milo gathered that Snape had had similar thoughts about
      Quirrell, and, despite all evidence practically proving his
      evilness, had Dumbledore's trust. Could Dumbledore have asked Snape
      to investigate Lockhart? Or was Snape simply paranoid as a matter
      of course?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Still, it was shaky. Milo needed something <em class="calibre8">concrete</em>,
      something <em class="calibre8">obvious</em>...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A shrill scream echoed through the Hogwarts hallways.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Perfect!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo broke into a sprint. He didn't know what had happened, who
      had done it, or who it had happened to, but one thing was for sure:
      it was a hook. And maybe someone was in danger. Either way, he had
      to get there <em class="calibre8">fast</em>. He considered using <em class="calibre8">Dimension
      Door</em> to teleport to general area the from which scream had
      originated, but he'd used so many spells searching Lockhart's
      office, not to mention multiple castings of <em class="calibre8">Invisibility</em>,
      that he thought he ought to save them in case of trouble. He was
      moving at such a breakneck pace that when he rounded a corner and
      stepped in some sort of liquid, he lost his balance and fell,
      sliding several feet before hitting a wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Surprisingly—he'd been expecting blood—he was lying in a pool of
      whitewash.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was then that he realized he'd been had.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gods <em class="calibre8">dammit</em>, Peeves!" he roared. He could hardly
      remember being so frustrated in his life. He sat up, hitting his
      head on something unexpected and hard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo looked up after the flash of pain subsided, and was
      surprised to see a bucket. He was even more surprised to see the
      holder of the bucket, once full of the whitewash that was now
      covering Milo's robes. Unsurprisingly, it was Peeves, but he
      appeared, well... stiff. Immobile. It was jarring. Peeves, as a
      poltergeist, was a being of chaos—he embodied unpredictability,
      movement, change.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The hell?" Milo muttered, looking closer, ready in case this
      was some sort of elaborate prank. It only took a single look at
      Peeves' face to see that it wasn't. His unmoving features were
      locked in an expression of pure terror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo waved a hand back and forth in front of Peeves, but there
      was no response. He narrowed his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Interesting</em>, Milo thought. <em class="calibre8">As a spirit, I'd just
      assumed Peeves was immune to most status effects. If he ever wakes
      up from whatever-this-is, and drops feathers on me
      again...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was perhaps due to fate, the will of the gods, or simply poor
      luck that Milo was discovered by a group of Slytherin first years,
      fresh from Sorting, coated in white paint and cackling like a
      lunatic over what appeared to be a terrified, unmoving little man
      dressed as a clown.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Worse, perhaps, was the foot-high writing in blood on the wall
      behind him that he'd completely failed to notice, having focussed
      so much on the Petrified poltergeist.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS HAS BEEN OPENED.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">ENEMIES OF THE HEIR, BEWARE.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, crap," Milo muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"September 7th, 1992," Fiona said to the recorder. "I have
      become aware that my memory may have been tampered with, and it
      might not be the first time..." She went on to detail the events of
      her insane day. Whoever had messed with her head (who she'd
      privately termed 'Loki'), she'd realized, clearly had only a scanty
      knowledge at best of technology. They'd confused the computer
      monitor with the computer itself—admittedly, a difference she
      herself had only come to be aware of as a result of Loki's botched
      intervention. As such, she'd decided to keep records on tape
      wherever possible rather than on paper. She'd considered getting a
      computer for herself, but a single look at the prices had disabused
      her of that notion; a sergeant's pay could only go so far.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She didn't know who or what Loki was. That had frightened her,
      at first. The idea of a shady, covert being out there with the
      power to alter another's memories was, frankly, terrifying. For all
      she knew, she'd already been affected by his/her/their/its
      abilities dozens or hundreds of times. Loki could be in the room
      with her <em class="calibre8">right now</em>, altering her memories in real
      time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That's what she'd thought at first. The mistake with the Machine
      proved that Loki wasn't infallible, and she could exploit that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She had to. It was her duty; she'd sworn an oath. For the Queen,
      for the people of England, for the residents of Surrey, and for
      herself. <em class="calibre8">Nobody damn well messes with my head and
      walks</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And so she'd made a plan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lkoturo was in the comfortable position of a man who had
      everything. And a man who has everything could go wherever he
      pleased.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lkoturo threw one last look in the mirror. True, his meeting
      with the aging emperor was supposed to have started three minutes
      ago, but it never hurt to remind him who was <em class="calibre8">really</em> in
      charge. <em class="calibre8">Excellent</em>, he thought. He'd decided to indulge a
      little and broke out his best goatee wax. It was expensive—mermaid
      scales don't come cheap—but worth every gold piece. Because,
      Lkoturo reminded himself, he was <em class="calibre8">worth</em> it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Zuzu, his familiar, fluttered up beside him, his dull purple
      scales shining in the candlelight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Master," the imp hissed. "The Watch has caught another team of
      self-proclaimed <em class="calibre8">heroes</em> in the act. A charge of Illegal
      Vigilante Justice, Wealth Grossly Exceeding Official WBL Mandate,
      Grand Theft Arcana, and Resisting Arrest for each."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excellent," Lkoturo said happily. Everything really
      <em class="calibre8">was</em> coming up his way, for once. "And how's the bandit
      situation?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're still operating in the countryside largely unhindered,"
      Zuzu said. "The Watch has its hands full keeping the adventurers in
      check. They simply can't spare the men to hunt them down."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perfect," Lkoturo practically purred, admiring his goatee once
      more. The mermaid wax gave it a shine that other types simply
      couldn't compete with. Despite what the Druids claimed, it was
      harvested in a completely humane method—the mermaids weren't using
      those scales, anyway; the dark reaver powder saw to that. "And the
      sewers?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're having a bit more trouble with that," Zuzu said. "Keeping
      the kobold population high enough to remain a threat is difficult;
      they keep being killed by the rats."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, you can't win them all. At least the rats are gaining
      experience, I presume?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed. Some even appear to be adopting PC classes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Fascinating</em>. Keep me updated."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As always, my lord."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And now, I suppose, I must go see the emperor." Lkoturo walked
      down the short corridor leading from his chambers to the royal
      ones. Of course, in the tradition of most viziers, he had a number
      of more... <em class="calibre8">discreet</em> entrances to the emperor's rooms. How
      else would he spy on, enchant, and, when necessary, poison the
      reigning monarch? That said, he preferred to use the regular
      hallways whenever possible, just to keep up the illusion of
      requiring them. He paused in front of the emperor's doorway and
      adjusted his cloak. A pair of guards in immaculately polished full
      plate carrying halberds guarded the door, but he didn't care what
      they saw—they were so full of Enchantments that they were
      essentially very pretty, menacing pieces of furniture.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He moved his hand slightly, and the guards threw open the doors
      to the emperor's 'private' study (Lkoturo had no less than six wall
      paintings with the eyes cut out that he could peer through for when
      he didn't want to waste a <em class="calibre8">Clairaudience</em> or <em class="calibre8">Scry</em>
      spell). The emperor sat behind his desk, staring through a window
      at Myra absently. Like the palace guards, the emperor hadn't had an
      independent thought in years.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You summoned me, sire?" Lkoturo said in his oiliest voice,
      bowing so low his hat almost touched the ground. It was only when
      the doors closed behind him that he realized they weren't alone. A
      thin, almost starved-looking woman with a tangle of black hair
      stood near the window. A quick Knowledge check identified her as
      human, not that that was any indicator of threat. Her Class and
      Level were completely unknown. He recovered from his surprise
      quickly. "And who might you be?" Lkoturo was hardly
      defenceless—like any good Grand Vizier, he had a number of
      Contingent spells in case of emergency, most of which were designed
      to fake his own death while <em class="calibre8">Teleporting</em> him to safety, or,
      if he did in fact die, level the building as an act of revenge
      while he safely awoke in a <em class="calibre8">Cloned</em> body in a secure
      location. That said, he didn't have an adventurer's assurance of
      only fighting level-appropriate encounters. She could be anyone
      from a poor homeless woman to an epic Sorceress to the avatar of
      Vecna.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">And who might you be</em>," she said in a mocking tone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It took Lkoturo the duration of a blink to make his decision.
      "Guards!" he shouted."Guards!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Guards</em>, <em class="calibre8">guards</em>," the woman said in the same
      tone. "Look at him; ordering the poor Muggles about as if they were
      still his. <em class="calibre8">Guards</em>, <em class="calibre8">guards</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know who you are, but if you're willing to talk, I'm
      sure we can come to some sort of mutual
      under—<em class="calibre8">Disintegr</em>—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A wand appeared in the woman's hand as if it had
      <em class="calibre8">Teleported</em> there. "<em class="calibre8">Silencio</em>." Lkoturo's mouth
      moved, but no sound came out. The spell failed. He couldn't believe
      it—using <em class="calibre8">Silence</em> to counter a spell was common enough, but
      his Spellcraft told him that that <em class="calibre8">wasn't</em> a spell. The
      woman clearly had no idea how to use a wand, but even if she had it
      wouldn't have helped; the stick she was holding was just that—a
      stick. No matter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Silent Flesh to St</em>—</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The woman flicked her wand with a carefully practiced-looking
      manoeuvre and suddenly Lkoturo found himself pressed against the
      wall by unseen forces—once again, no magic to be seen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You people are all so predictable," she said, suddenly deadly
      serious. The rapid change of expression was unnerving, all the more
      so because he was pretty certain her facial features hadn't really
      <em class="calibre8">moved</em>, they'd just... changed in meaning somehow. Looking
      at her made him regret taking ranks in Sense Motive; she was very
      clearly insane. "The first thing you do after being silenced is to
      cast a nonverbal spell of some variety; never to flee."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Good idea</em>, Lkoturo thought. <em class="calibre8">Silent Dimension
      Do—</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And another thing; you always start casting every six seconds
      <em class="calibre8">exactly</em>. Like clockwork. <em class="calibre8">Imperio</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The screaming Slytherins had, of course, attracted attention.
      Professors Snape, Dumbledore, McGonagall, and Lockhart gathered
      around Peeves and the writing. A crowd of students clustered around
      behind them, some frightened but most simply curious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," said Snape, "I can't say it's any great loss."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, he'll be fine," McGonagall said, somewhat bitterly.
      "Poltergeists are quite indestructible—believe me; I know. What I
      am more concerned about is..." she gestured at the writing on the
      wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is exactly like what happened once in a village near
      Thiruvananthapuram," Lockhart interjected. "Of course, I'm sure
      you've read all about it in <em class="calibre8">Magical Me</em>, but it turned out
      to be nothing more than a disgruntled hag and a pair of goblins.
      <em class="calibre8">Fascinating</em> story, you know, they nearly dunked me
      head-first in Screaming Snakes Hair Potion, but, cleverly, I
      flashed the hag my best smile and she fell for me at once. Getting
      away from <em class="calibre8">her</em>, as it turned out, was almost as
      difficult..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?" said Professor McGonagall. "Because that doesn't sound
      terribly similar at all, Gilderoy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, when I say <em class="calibre8">exactly</em>, I mean it has certain
      resemblances that appear once you scratch the surface," Lockhart
      replied, completely unfazed. "For example, both encounters
      prominently feature a small man in a clown costume, but admittedly,
      the one which I encountered was revealed, in a stunning twist, to
      be five gnomes standing on each other's heads."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If only a similar discovery could be made about Peeves," Snape
      said. "In the mean time, I believe it would be prudent to send
      these students on their way and have this mess cleaned up?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed, Severus," Dumbledore said absently. "Minerva? If you
      would be so kind?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course, Albus," McGonagall said, then turned to the
      students. "You heard the Headmaster, everyone! Back to your common
      rooms—that means you, Mister Weasley!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm George!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I never said otherwise." McGonagall narrowed her eyes, and the
      students scattered. Once again, Milo found himself forced to
      respect the Transfiguration Professor's abilities of
      Intimidation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gilderoy Lockhart had always prided himself on his neatness and
      attention to detail; both, indeed, were a requirement for his line
      of work. So, when he entered his office that evening, he
      immediately knew something was awry, and it wasn't just the smell
      of dungbombs. He'd expected that—likely some young wizard was
      jealous of his success and good looks. No, it was the contents of
      his suitcase, all in complete disarray.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A thorough search (after, of course, using a powerful
      Air-Purifying Charm to deal with the smell) revealed that nothing
      had been stolen, so someone had merely... searched his belongings?
      Who? Why? Could someone know his secret? Or did they merely
      suspect?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd expected this to be a soft, easy gig, but it appeared that
      he would have to keep his guard up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With her shift over, Fiona, now in plainclothes, approached what
      appeared to be the most soulless residence she'd ever seen. She
      expected it to seem eerily familiar, as if she'd seen it once in a
      dream, but it didn't. It just looked, well, ordinary. Oppressively
      so, in fact; it was as if whoever resided there (she hesitated to
      use the word "lived," for there was clearly no <em class="calibre8">life</em> to be
      had in this house) desperately wanted to blend in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That was the first thing that made her suspicious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She knocked. Once.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before her knuckles touched the door the second time, it
      opened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes? Hello? What do you want?" said a short, overweight man
      with a noticeable lack of manners, style, or neck.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sergeant Fiona Smythe, Surrey Police," she said coolly. Just
      because this wasn't exactly an <em class="calibre8">official</em> visit didn't mean
      that she couldn't introduce herself as a police officer. As far as
      she knew. She <em class="calibre8">was</em> a police officer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man's mannerisms changed almost at once. "Oh, of course,
      officer," he said in an oily manner, "what can I do for you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Vernon Dursley?" Fiona took the man's mute fear as an
      affirmative. "I'm here following up on the disturbance that
      occurred here on the 31st of July."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Vernon froze.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That was the second thing that made her suspicious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which disturbance was that, exactly?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I understood an armed, extremely disturbed minor entered your
      house and damaged some of your property?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You must be mistaken," Vernon said through clenched teeth. "We
      <em class="calibre8">certainly</em> have <em class="calibre8">no</em> disturbed minors on this
      premises. Oh, no. None at all. Never have, in fact."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see. Then I must have been mistaken. Thank you for your
      time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Vernon slammed the door shut in her face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Well, well, well...</em> she thought. Vernon clearly
      remembered what had happened; he was a terrible liar. And it just
      as clearly <em class="calibre8">had</em> happened—the paint on the window pane in
      front of the dining room was fresh.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That was the third thing that made her suspicious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So either Mr. Dursley here was involved, or intimidated somehow.
      There was only one thing to do now, and that was go door-to-door.
      Maybe one of the neighbours had seen something.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">D&amp;D Tip #1:</strong> You know how Milo can
      <em class="calibre8">Shatter</em> wands and render wizards helpless? You can do that
      in D&amp;D, too! If you destroy or steal (say by <em class="calibre8">Shatter</em>,
      Sunder, or Sleight of Hand) a Cleric's Holy Symbol, a Wizard's
      Spell Component Pouch, or a Druid's Holly and Mistletoe, that
      caster is now an Expert, Commoner, or Grizzly Bear,
      respectively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">D&amp;D Tip #2:</strong> Speaking of Sleight of Hand,
      it's a DC 20 check to swipe something from another character. This
      is a <em class="calibre8">fixed DC</em>. That means that pick-pocketing Pelor is
      just as easy as pick-pocketing the city watch (<em class="calibre8">caveat</em>
      <em class="calibre8">the first</em>: the higher the target's level, the harder it is
      to get away with that without getting caught. So if you pick pocket
      Pelor, hope you have your smite-resistant pants on). You can take a
      -20 penalty to make a pick pocket attempt as a <em class="calibre8">free
      action</em>. You can do infinite free actions per round, so, if you
      can make a DC 40 Sleight of Hand check (even if it's only on a 20)
      then you can brute force every single item off of your mark on your
      turn. Curiously, this doesn't include 'sheathed weapons,' which
      have an insane DC of 50 (70 as a free action). You also can't steal
      held items, which takes a Disarm attempt. However, you can probably
      steal:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Clothes, armour, etc.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Wands, potions, etc.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Many, many coins</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Holy symbols, spell component pouches, and the like</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Artifacts of Doom</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(<em class="calibre8">caveat the second</em>: don't actually use this trick. It
      breaks the game in an un-fun way, and in any case, the 'infinite
      free actions' thing is kind of a myth—the rule is that you have a
      'reasonable' number of free actions.)</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
