<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 41: CC 8: Gilderoy Lockhart, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s4" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 8: Gilderoy Lockhart</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Notes:</strong> Good news, everyone! Harry
      Potter and the Natural 20 has inspired its first story, a
      Dune/D&amp;D crossover by DalkonCledwin! It's only in its first
      chapter, but The Won Initiative and the Kwisatz Haderach can be
      found here on fanfiction (links are blocked, but you can find it
      with a quick search). It has a very promising beginning, so you
      should all check it out and show DalkonCledwin some support.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Here's the blurb: <em class="calibre8">While traveling on a Spelljammer, our Hero
      Argylle suddenly gets transported to a far off land where things
      quickly start to stop making sense to his years of expertise. All
      the while the people of this new world are continuously baffled by
      his seemingly superior combat skills and his ability to charm some
      of the most dangerous creatures their world has to
      offer...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Update:</strong> So my wisdom teeth came out this week,
      which is getting in the way of my writing somewhat. This week's
      chapter will probably be late by a couple of days.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona awoke in her bed with a strange feeling well-known to
      anyone who has ever been jolted awake by dream-tripping on the
      dream-sidewalk. She spent a few seconds taking deep breaths to calm
      her racing heart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bloody hate those," she muttered to herself, then checked her
      alarm clock:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">6:33</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shit!" She was three minutes behind schedule. She had her
      entire morning, every morning, planned out to the minute—enough
      time to put kettle on, throw bread in toaster, hop in shower, get
      dressed, start tea steeping, feed Sprocket, get toast out of
      toaster, butter and then eat toast for breakfast, put now-steeped
      tea in vacuum flask, throw dishes in sink, put shoes on, grab
      walkman, open door, go out door, close door, lock door, listen to
      Rolling Stones, jog to station, arrive at station at
      <em class="calibre8">precisely</em> seven o'clock, start work. She briefly debated
      which to sacrifice between her morning shower, breakfast, and tea,
      but was already in the shower with the kettle on before realizing
      she'd made her decision.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sprocket—her enormously fat calico cat—was vocally unhappy with
      this decision, as she usually unabashedly ate any and all crumbs
      Fiona left behind after breakfast, but sometimes sacrifices had to
      be made.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once she was on the street, she, while moving, put her
      headphones on and pressed play. Rather than Ruby Tuesday, the song
      she had listened to every morning on the way to work (and on
      morning jogs on weekends and holidays) for the last four years, she
      heard her own voice in the recorder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you know why you're hearing yourself speak, hold
      fast-forward for thirty seconds. No? Still here? Damn, they got you
      again. Well, anyway, here's what's going on..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Strangely enough, it was the knowledge that if she stopped to
      freak out then she'd be late for work that allowed her to, more or
      less, keep her cool. She listened to herself list out events,
      locations where she'd stashed notes and journals, and reassurances
      that this was, unfortunately, <em class="calibre8">not</em> a joke. She realized she
      was shaking, and it wasn't with fear. How <em class="calibre8">dare</em> they? She
      didn't know who was behind this, but what gave them the
      <em class="calibre8">right</em>? Her memories were her own, damn it. They were her
      <em class="calibre8">life</em>. Taking away someone's memory was <em class="calibre8">murder</em>.
      The Fiona Smythe who had left this message for her was no less dead
      just because there was still a Fiona Smythe to listen to it. And
      this had happened before, no less.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A homeless man approached her, likely to ask for money, but
      after one look at her face, he just kept on walking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The tape ended with two very explicit instructions: figure out
      <em class="calibre8">exactly</em> what you'd done the day before and rewind this
      cassette.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No kidding," she muttered, pressing rewind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Has anybody seen Harry?" Hermione asked, looking around. They
      were standing in front of the Herbology greenhouses with most of
      the second-year Hufflepuffs and Gryffindors, waiting for Sprout to
      arrive and teach them their first Herbology class of the year.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He was just with us," Ron said, looking around.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo frowned. Had Harry somehow been lured away from the group
      and been Petrified by Slytherin's monster? Had Malfoy finally
      settled on a plan for revenge and enacted it? Was Harry being
      lowered slowly into a vat of electric eels? The more he thought
      about it, the more he was <em class="calibre8">certain</em> the Boy-Who-Lived was
      once again in mortal peril and needed rescu—</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, wait, there he is," Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry, guys," Harry said. "Would you believe a first-year with
      a camera tried to get a signed photo of me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A <em class="calibre8">signed photo</em>?" Ron said disgustedly. "You can't let
      Draco hear about that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Believe me, I know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm..." Milo said thoughtfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry said. "I don't know what idea you just had, but I
      know I won't like it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I keep forgetting you're a celebrity here," Milo said. "We
      could capitalize on that. Harry Potter signed photos, Harry Potter
      action figures, Harry Potter lunchboxes..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who would want a Harry Potter lunchbox?" Harry scoffed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's more, we should really see if we can get a knut for
      every Harry Potter Chocolate Frog Card..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. Absolutely not. As if I didn't have enough problems as it
      is. You wouldn't believe what Lockhart said to me earlier—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was interrupted by the arrival of Professor Sprout and
      most of the rest of the Hufflepuffs and Gryffindors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're in Greenhouse Three today," Sprout said cheerfully.
      "Which means I want <em class="calibre8">everyone</em> on their best behaviour. I
      haven't had anyone seriously injured in Herbology for more than
      four years, and that's a streak I don't mean to break." There was
      an excited murmur among the students—Greenhouse Three held much
      more dangerous (and, to twelve-year-olds, therefore more
      interesting) plants than Greenhouse One, which was the only one
      they had yet entered. "I want everybody in groups of four!" Sprout
      instructed, which led to a mad dash. Everyone rushed to be with
      their friends, people in friend circles of five or more raced to
      not be the odd-man out, and everyone—<em class="calibre8">everyone</em>—tried to
      discreetly avoid being in Neville's group. They knew who was going
      to break Sprout's streak if anyone would, and that there might well
      be collateral damage when he did.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In this whirlwind, Seamus and Dean snatched up Ron and Harry to
      a distant table, while Milo, who had been distracted, wound up at a
      table with Hermione, Neville (Milo was glad he was wearing
      fire-resistant robes) and...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hi," Hannah said. "I haven't seen much of you yet. You vanished
      at the Sorting before I could say hello."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hi," Milo said awkwardly. Out of Hannah's line-of-sight, he saw
      Hermione making mock-gagging motions, followed by exaggeratedly
      mouthing <em class="calibre8">how was your summer</em>. "How was your summer?" Milo
      asked. Hermione gave him a thumbs up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, you know, the usual. Well, actually, I guess you
      <em class="calibre8">don't</em> know. Weird. I pretty much spent the summer reading
      books in my backyard; nothing terribly interesting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well that sounds boring..." Hermione frantically waved her arms
      in front of her and mouthed <em class="calibre8">No! Bad!</em> "...to boring
      people," Milo finished. Hermione gave him a hesitant thumbs-up. "I
      <em class="calibre8">love</em> reading books on the backyard. Just love it. In fact,
      it's <em class="calibre8">all</em> I ever do..." Hermione gave him a vigorous
      thumbs-down. "...except when I don't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you okay?" she asked. "You seem... odd."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We'll be re-potting Mandrakes today," Sprout declared, and all
      conversation ceased. Sprout was a sweet and cheerful person, but
      she came down like a dire badger on anyone who talked while she was
      teaching. "Now, who can tell me the properties of a Mandrake?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To nobody's surprise, Hermione's hand shot into the air. To
      <em class="calibre8">everybody's</em> surprise, so did Ron's.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well," said Professor Sprout, slightly taken aback.
      "Mister Weasley?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mandrakes are the only known cure for Petrification," Ron said
      proudly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Correct," Sprout said. "Ten points for Gryffindor." Milo saw
      Harry and Ron high-five over at their table. "Mandrake roots can
      return those who have been transfigured—which includes
      Petrification—to their original state. As such, it is a vital
      component to many forms of antidotes. It is also extremely rare—we
      are quite fortunate to have them here at all. I want everyone to be
      very careful with them, because in addition to being rare, they are
      also quite dangerous. Can anyone tell me why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's hand shot up so fast it practically quivered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The cry of the Mandrake is fatal to anyone who hears it," she
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Precisely. Another ten points for Gryffindor," said Professor
      Sprout. "Now, these Mandrakes are very young, so their cry won't
      kill you—it will only knock you out for most of a day. Still, I
      doubt any of you would want to miss your first day of classes, or
      that your teachers would be particularly happy with me if you did."
      Sprout handed out heavy-duty earmuffs to the class, telling them
      that she would give a thumbs-down when they were allowed to take
      them off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Something went 'click' in Milo's brain, but he wasn't sure what
      it was. It wasn't the obvious thing—that the teachers had realized
      that more Petrifications were on the way and wanted a remedy in
      advance. There was also a nagging fear that he'd been mishearing
      'mandrake' this entire time, because, after all—the <em class="calibre8">cry</em> of
      the mandrake? How did a harmless plant <em class="calibre8">cry</em>? Had they been
      saying 'Man-Drake' this whole time, and there was really some
      variety of young half-dragon living in this greenhouse? But that
      was aside from what Milo's hindbrain—for once, he was fairly sure
      it was <em class="calibre8">not</em> his plot-senses—picked up. Something about
      young Mandrakes knocking people out...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Earmuffs on, everybody!" Sprout said happily. Milo didn't need
      to be told twice. What Sprout pulled out of her pot resembled less
      the harmless, vaguely humanoid-shaped root that Milo was familiar
      with, and more a Druid's bogun. It had pale green, mottled skin and
      judging by the movements of its mouth, it was screaming for all it
      was worth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Boccob," Milo muttered under his breath, not that anyone could
      hear him. This world continued to surprise him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When it came time for them to plant their Mandrakes, Milo was
      glad for his dragonhide gloves. The little plant-things fought for
      all they were worth not to be put back in their pots. For what Milo
      was certain would not be the last time, he wished he was a Druid.
      Then he'd walk out of here with an army of instant-death-causing
      plant people who lived to do his bidding. Unfortunately, he was not
      a Druid. He was a Wizard. And sometimes being a Wizard meant
      getting your hands dirty and not getting any class features.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By the end of the class, everyone was covered in mud, sweat,
      and, in some cases, Mandrake spit. Sprout assured them it wasn't
      poisonous, but Neville was starting to develop a concerning-looking
      rash. Worse, the class had run overtime while they chased down the
      last Mandrake, who had made a run for his life. They were already
      late for Transfigurations.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Prestidigitation</em>," Milo muttered, cleaning himself
      off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Transfigurations was predictably dreadful. McGonagall was
      extremely disappointed that, despite his impressive showing for the
      Transfiguration exam—he had no intention of telling her how he'd
      managed to get an 'O' on that—he was unable to transform a beetle
      into a button. Because the beetle was a living creature, he was
      unable even to use his <em class="calibre8">Prestidigitation</em> trick. In the end,
      she'd discreetly suggested he recommence his remedial
      Transfiguration classes with her on Thursdays after class.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't understand why you don't just tell her," Hannah said
      afterwards, during their lunch break. "It's the worst-kept secret
      in school that you're not a normal wizard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The way I see it, it's sort of a... polite fiction, you know?
      As long as it isn't officially acknowledged, there won't be any
      official action. Transfiguration is a mandatory course until our
      OWLs, in any case, so it'd look suspicious if I was pulled out. And
      if McGonagall did find out... I mean, the only other option—aside
      from dropping the course, that is—is that she'd, you know, help me
      cheat. Does that seem like something McGonagall would do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Hannah said. "But I also don't think she'd support
      torturing a student who was <em class="calibre8">physically unable</em> to perform
      even simple Transfigurations this way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I still think I can do it," Milo insisted. "I just have to be
      more creative."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why don't you do what you did for the exam?" she asked. "By the
      way, what <em class="calibre8">did</em> you do for that exam?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo chewed his lip. On the one hand, more people in the loop
      meant a larger chance of the authorities finding out, but on the
      other hand, it was pure <em class="calibre8">genius</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Promise not to tell anyone?" he asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," he said conspiratorially, "you see, I—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was then that Harry and Ron arrived.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, hey Milo, Hannah," Harry said. "What's up?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, Milo was just about to tell me—Ow!" Milo stepped on her
      toe. "About, er, you know, the Goblin Uprisings of 1216."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wasn't it the Goblin Uprisings of 1612?" Harry asked
      curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, you know goblins," Milo said with a fake laugh. "They
      sure do love to rise up, am I right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, yeah," Ron agreed. "They do tend to do that a lot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So," Milo said, desperately casting about for a change in
      subject. "How about that, er, Herbology?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was dreadful," Hannah said. "I felt like I was burying
      little <em class="calibre8">babies</em> alive. Babies that fought like
      <em class="calibre8">tigers</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I dunno," Ron shrugged. "It wasn't so bad for us. Turns out
      Dean and Seamus—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">That's</em> how you say his name?" Milo gasped. "That's
      unfair! They are not <em class="calibre8">allowed</em> to be Seamus and Dean. They
      can be See-mus and Deen or Shay-mus and Dayne, but they can't have
      it both ways."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...Anyway," Ron continued. "They're much better at Herbology
      than you'd have thought. They really shoved those Mandrakes into
      those pots like it was nobody's business."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very efficient," Harry commented. "No-nonsense whatsoever."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh. I wouldn't have guessed by looking at them," Milo said. "I
      suppose it's a common enough NPC trait, however."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron shrugged. "So what was it Milo was going to tell you?" he
      asked Hannah curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What I thought about Golden Boy Stop-Heart," Milo interjected.
      "And how we'll finally be able to get the measure of him in his
      class. Which we have now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What? We've still got like ten minutes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Exactly! We have a new professor, so we can arrive early and,
      er, make a good impression."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron paused. "Who are you and what did Hermione do with the real
      Milo?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am the real Milo. Now are you coming, or not?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nah," Ron said. "I'll catch up later. In for a game of Wizard's
      Chess, Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure," Harry answered, "but we play by Milo's rules. You only
      won the last one because your pawn rolled nothing but twenties
      against my knight."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine," Ron agreed. "But you owe me a round of <em class="calibre8">normal</em>
      Wizard's Chess later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll go," Hannah said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And that was how Milo wound up sitting front-and-centre at
      Lockhart's first class, wedged between Hermione and Hannah. The
      classroom was designed to hold a much larger class than the eleven
      Gryffindor second-years currently present, as some Defence
      Professors had preferred to teach two or even all four houses
      simultaneously. As such, there were dozens of empty chairs, so the
      Gryffindors, as students are wont to do, dispersed to fill all
      available space equally, rather like a gas. In this case, a
      lighter-than-air gas, as there were four empty rows behind the
      three of them before reaching the first outliers higher up the
      steps.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was then that Lockhart entered. As always, his hair, smile,
      and clothes were perfect. This was obvious even to Milo's
      outsider's perspective.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It occurred to Milo that few people were ever perpetually calm,
      cheerful, and confident—except for some NPCs, particularly minor
      ones with little personality. From this he could conclude that
      Lockhart was either an exceptional actor or a flat character. Time
      would tell which was true; largely by the amount of detail his
      character warranted and how much time was spent on him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was then that Milo began counting adjectives.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Me," Lockhart said, pointing at his own smiling portrait on the
      covers of their textbooks. "Gilderoy Lockhart, Order of Merlin,
      Third Class, Honorary Member of the Dark Force Defence League and
      five times winner of <em class="calibre8">Witch Weekly's</em> Most-Charming-Smile
      award—but I don't talk about that. I didn't get rid of the Bandon
      Banshee by <em class="calibre8">smiling</em> at her!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were a few scattered laughs from the audience. Milo was
      simply floored. He'd had his suspicions about Lockhart, of
      course—especially considering what happened with the <em class="calibre8">last</em>
      Defence Professor. But he'd never thought that the first words out
      of the man's mouth that were directed to their class would be a
      simple list of facts describing <em class="calibre8">himself</em>. In valuable time
      that a Professor <em class="calibre8">could</em> be using for exposition—much like
      Sprout had, for example—Lockhart did nothing but draw attention to
      his own talents. It was not the most subtle thing he had ever seen
      the DM (Detail Magnet) point out to him before. Milo began taking
      notes frantically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see you've all bought a complete set of my books—well done. I
      thought we'd start today with a little quiz. Nothing to worry
      about—just to check how well you've read them, how much you've
      taken in..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While Lockhart handed out test papers, Milo surreptitiously
      reached into his backpack.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Scholar's Touch</em>," he muttered, tapping Lockhart's
      various textbooks (half of which were plagiarized bootleg copies
      he'd made from Ron's). Hermione shot him a disapproving look, but
      Hannah just chuckled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have thirty minutes. Start—<em class="calibre8">now</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo looked at the sheet, and was glad he'd refreshed his
      memory. The quiz was full of the most minute trivia: <em class="calibre8">What is
      Gilderoy Lockhart's secret ambition?</em> <em class="calibre8">What is Gilderoy
      Lockhart's favourite breed of cat? What is Gilderoy Lockhart's
      favourite dance? In your experience, how has Gilderoy Lockhart most
      changed your life? Who is Gilderoy Lockhart's role model?</em>
      Despite having already read the books with <em class="calibre8">Scholar's Touch</em>
      before, he'd never have remembered this many details.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo quickly realized Gilderoy Lockhart had more backstory than
      the rest of this setting combined. Gilderoy Lockhart was a more
      well-rounded, fleshed-out character than <em class="calibre8">he</em> was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gilderoy Lockhart was capital-'I' Important.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Half an hour later, Lockhart collected the tests, reading
      through them and pointing out common errors—his favourite dance was
      the foxtrot, and his role model was, of course, himself. Then he
      paused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, well, well," he said delightedly. "It appears that not
      one but <em class="calibre8">two</em> of you managed to get a perfect score! Ten
      points for Gryffindor for each of my devoted admirers. Well done,
      Mister Amastacia-Liadon and Miss Granger!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione turned a violent shade of pink, and Milo realized he
      may have accidentally drawn attention to himself. The chortles from
      the back row had nothing to do with his embarrassment—at least, he
      firmly believed that if he told himself that frequently enough, it
      might become true.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart then placed a large cage covered in a white sheet on
      the table. Milo, already somewhat on edge, sat up a little
      straighter and shook his sleeves clear of his hands. He'd had bad
      experiences with Defence Professors bringing live monsters to class
      before.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I must ask you not to scream," Lockhart said in a stage
      whisper. "It might provoke them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was then that Lockhart released the pixies. Electric blue,
      slightly over half a foot tall, with voices so shrill that they
      forced a Will save to avoid becoming severely irritated. As soon as
      the cage door flipped open, they made a run for it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have no fear!" Lockhart said, drawing his wand. "<em class="calibre8">Peskipiski
      Pesternomi</em>!" If the spell did anything, however, it was not
      apparent. The pixies escaped the cage and flew towards the class—of
      which, Milo was front-and-centre.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo's battle-honed instinctive responses took over immediately.
      As soon as the pixies were released and his Initiative came up, he
      leapt to his feet, hands making complicated arcane gestures.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Shadow Conjuration</em>," he cast. <em class="calibre8">Shadow
      Conjuration</em> was a phenomenally-versatile Illusion spell could
      mimic any Conjuration spell of up to 3rd level. This made it
      perfect for casting any one of hundreds of possible spells so
      circumstantial (Milo liked to think of them as 'use-impaired') that
      nobody would ever bother preparing them—in this case,
      <em class="calibre8">Malevolent Miasma</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ten thin tendrils of grey fog streaked with dark, nauseating
      patches burst out of Milo's outstretched fingers, splitting up in
      mid-air into ever-smaller branches that flew down the Pixies'
      throats. The pixies began choking and fell to the ground, one
      gasping out a feeble "Crivens!" before succumbing to the effects of
      the spell. In seconds, they all lay still on the ground,
      unconscious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were many, <em class="calibre8">many</em> more effective spells than
      <em class="calibre8">Malevolent Miasma</em>, but this one was the first he thought
      of which had everything he needed—it was nonlethal, affected a
      small area (he had no intention of ending up in detention for
      knocking out a Professor on his first day of classes), and fairly
      long-lasting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Gods</em>, Milo thought to himself. <em class="calibre8">I am</em> such
      <em class="calibre8">an idiot.</em> Really, you'd think he'd have learned after the
      Glitterdust Incident last September. <em class="calibre8">And I'd</em> just
      <em class="calibre8">beaten myself up for drawing attention to myself... Now I'm
      going to get the whole Gryffindor House in detention again or
      something</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If Lockhart was surprised, he hid it well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well done!" he exclaimed. "Young Mister Anastasia-Llewin here
      passed the test! For, as I'm sure you can now divine, I was testing
      your responses when faced with danger after an authority figure
      failed to protect you. Twenty points for Gryffindor!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart enlisted a few volunteers to re-cage the pixies, and
      the rest of the class mostly consisted of Lockhart discussing his
      various exploits.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," Milo said afterwards. "That was... unexpected."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The pixies being released?" Ron asked. "Because that was
      <em class="calibre8">ridiculous</em>. What kind of person releases magical creatures
      into a group of unsuspecting students?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I meant Grimlock's clear central importance to the Plot.
      Also, that I burned a fourth-level spell on those things. With my
      luck, I'll be ambushed by Acromantula-riding Redcaps later today
      and run out of spells because of it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think it was clever," Hermione said. "Testing our responses
      under pressure. Exactly what a good Defence Professor
      <em class="calibre8">should</em> do. Certainly got my heart racing, that's for
      sure."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pretty sure it was his smile that did that," Ron muttered
      <em class="calibre8">sotto voce</em>, but Milo didn't think Hermione heard it. All
      things considered, this was probably fortunate for Ron's ambitions
      of surviving to adulthood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you ask me, he was completely clueless," Harry said. "I
      think he expected that spell to work."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But that doesn't make any sense," Hermione countered. "It's
      simple logic. Why would he publically rely on a spell he hadn't
      practiced in advance if he wanted it to work? Besides, I don't
      think it's even a real spell. It had to have been an act."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wonder..." Milo said, "I'm seeing a lot of parallels between
      him and Fudge. Ambiguously incompetent individuals in positions of
      extreme fame and power, respectively, who may or may not be putting
      on an act. Perhaps... perhaps he's Fudge's secret apprentice? Or
      long-lost child? Maybe he <em class="calibre8">is</em> Fudge, keeping an eye on the
      school in disguise..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They continued their debate all the way to Gryffindor Common
      Room without reaching a consensus. Hermione maintained that he
      <em class="calibre8">must</em> be a great and powerful wizard—after all, his books
      said so, and if you can't trust books, who <em class="calibre8">can</em> you trust?
      Ron and Harry became gradually more certain that Lockhart was a
      fraud who had somehow bluffed his way into fame, and Milo... Milo
      was uncertain. There was definitely more to their Defence Professor
      than appeared on the surface, but the concerning thing was that
      there was <em class="calibre8">so much</em> surface information. He knew Lockhart's
      birthday. He didn't even know <em class="calibre8">his own</em> birthday.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Although...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It occurred to Milo that he might be able to do something about
      that, if he put his mind to it. Like he had with his mother in
      Dumbledore's office last year.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Not yet</em>, he thought. Part of it was simple
      pragmatism—it might just happen, someday, that it would be
      beneficial for him for his birthday to lie on a certain day, and he
      wouldn't be able to change it once he'd declared it. But there was
      more than that. It was hard to pin down. Maybe one day, but not
      today.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
