<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 42: CC 9: I Scry With My Little Eye, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossov...</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s5" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 9: I Scry With My Little Eye</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">It took four days after Harry's mirror came in the owl post for
      Milo to realize his error in relying on brute-force
      <em class="calibre8">Scrying</em>. Harry had ordered the mirror from a specialty
      furniture shop; it turned out it was more difficult than Milo would
      have expected to find a mirror that was of 'finely wrought and
      highly polished silver at least 2 feet by 4 feet' that only cost
      thirty-seven galleons and some change. As a fourth-level spell,
      Milo could cast up to four <em class="calibre8">Scrying</em>'s per day. With
      knowledge of the 'Heir of Slytherin' sketchy enough that it didn't
      even qualify as secondhand, the unknown Heir received a +10 bonus
      on Will saves to resist the effects. Assuming the Heir had no
      Wisdom worth mentioning and had a small base save bonus from class
      (assuming local wizards even <em class="calibre8">had</em> classes, Wisdom, or
      saving throw bonuses), the Heir had a fifty-percent chance to cause
      <em class="calibre8">Scrying</em> to fail. Milo very much doubted that the Heir had
      such a poor Will save bonus. Still, the problem was not
      insurmountable—there was a five-percent chance for anyone to fail a
      save, no matter the difficulty. Well, <em class="calibre8">almost</em> anyone. There
      were a few ways to get around that particular hurdle: Swordsages,
      for example, could replace some saving throws with Concentration
      skill checks, which did not have that particular disadvantage.
      Still, Milo was reasonably confident that, with enough Divinations
      sent his or her way, <em class="calibre8">eventually</em> the Heir would fail a
      save.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The problem, however, lay in that 'enough Divinations' part of
      the plan. <em class="calibre8">Scrying</em>, as it turned out, took a solid
      <em class="calibre8">hour</em> to cast. While Milo's Dedicated Wright, Cog, shaved
      off a lot of time Milo would have spent in Item Creation (the
      little Homunculus was currently working his way through a stack of
      <em class="calibre8">Amulets of Protection from Evil</em> for the Ministry, in case
      they ever decided to reply to his letter), there were still the
      more mundane problems of getting enough sleep to recover spells,
      doing his homework, and bluffing his way through his classes to
      worry about.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd had to completely suspend all spell research, but not
      before finishing off <em class="calibre8">Translocation Trick</em>, which allowed
      him to switch places—and appearances—with someone else. The spell
      couldn't have been designed better to get him through Potions. He
      simply followed all of Snape's instructions for the majority of the
      class, chopping crocodile heart and grinding cockroaches and
      whatnot as per specifications, then used <em class="calibre8">Translocation
      Trick</em> to switch places with Ron (who was more than happy to
      help pull a fast one over Snape) and pretend to reread the
      instructions for a few seconds while Ron, magically disguised as
      Milo, stirred the potion as per directions. There a few drawbacks
      to this plan, however, which was why Milo still spent a fair amount
      of time brainstorming an improved method. The spell in no way
      allowed them to <em class="calibre8">sound</em> like the other person, so both he
      and Ron had to remain perfectly silent for the duration. Further,
      when the spell ended, they switched back to their original
      appearances, but <em class="calibre8">not</em> their original locations. Milo
      originally considered using the simple and low-level <em class="calibre8">Benign
      Transposition</em> to switch them back, but realized this wouldn't
      work—they'd still look like each other. <em class="calibre8">Translocation
      Trick</em> couldn't simply be dismissed like many spells; instead,
      he had to wait over an hour for it to wear off. As such, Milo was
      forced to burn not one but <em class="calibre8">two</em> fourth-level spells every
      Potions class (one to switch places with Ron, another to switch
      back), which severely hampered his attempts to discover the Heir of
      Slytherin with magic. Milo smiled ruefully when he remembered
      Snape's plan last year to oust him for Lucius as a fake wizard by
      making him brew a potion in front of the Minister for Magic,
      thinking about how easily he could have foiled the plan if he'd
      been able to cast fourth-level spells then.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ironically, since Milo was, when necessary, a meticulous person
      with a great eye for detail, and the majority of the work was
      simply chopping and measuring, he turned out to be rather good at
      potion-making. Snape, to say the least, was growing increasingly
      suspicious of his sudden abilities, but so far didn't seem to have
      caught on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By way of more mundane methods of catching the Heir—or
      Slytherin's monster—in action, Milo had Mordy patrol the halls at
      night. Operating under the assumption that the monster Petrified
      with a gaze attack—most Petrification effects in both Milo's world
      and this one were gaze attacks—Mordy was the ideal choice, as the
      rat familiar could operate by sense of smell alone. Mordenkainen,
      predictably, was not happy with this particular state of
      affairs—less because he might run into Slytherin's monster and more
      because he might run into Mrs. Norris, the groundskeeper's cat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And yet in spite of all the trouble, <em class="calibre8">Scrying</em> was
      failing, and there were several possible reasons for it. The two
      most likely, as far as Milo could tell, were that either a) the
      Heir's Will save was high enough that he was regularly passing his
      saving throws or b) there were <em class="calibre8">multiple</em> Heirs of Slytherin
      out there, and he wasn't providing <em class="calibre8">Scrying</em> with enough
      information to unambiguously define the target. Milo hadn't put any
      ranks in Profession (Statistician) but he could tell that it would
      take a <em class="calibre8">lot</em> of scrying attempts to determine beyond
      reasonable doubt that the spell wasn't failing because the target
      was making his saves. Unless he could change the odds...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We need to find and dig up Salazar Slytherin," Milo said, as it
      turned out, aloud.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Say again, mate?" Ron said in surprise. A few inconsequential
      NPCs turned to look briefly, then shrugged when they realized it
      was just Milo doing something weird again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, that wouldn't work at all, nevermind. We're not trying to
      scry <em class="calibre8">on</em> Salazar, we're scrying on his heir..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I'm glad that settled that," Ron said, looking somewhat
      bemused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So instead we need something of Salazar's; it should work too.
      By <em class="calibre8">definition</em> it's owned by his Heir now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry mate, what who where when and why?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If we have something the target owns, it's much easier for me
      to find him. I don't suppose you know anything around here that
      belongs to Slytherin?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shame we won the House Cup last year," Ron said boastfully. "Or
      it would have belonged to Slytherin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, not the <em class="calibre8">house</em>, the founder."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh. Ah, no, sorry. But if he did, you can pretty much guarantee
      that it'd be in his Chamber."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that's... not very helpful."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You sure this will help us find the Heir?" Ron asked him
      doubtfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pretty sure, yeah," Milo said. "Or at least tell us that we
      need a new strategy altogether."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It didn't take them long to conclude that, in order to find
      something once owned by Salazar, they'd need Hermione's help, which
      meant going to the library. Milo put his +2 Dexterity to the test
      in an attempt to sneak past the librarian, Madam Pince (Milo
      suspected she was this universe's version of an Inevitable,
      although instead of punishing those who transgressed on oaths or
      cheated death, she came down like an avalanche on those who damaged
      or misplaced books). Their relations had been... frosty ever since
      Milo had checked out the majority of the library last year. Due to
      surprisingly lax rules on the matter, he'd simply taken to
      repeatedly renewing as-yet unread books by owl communication rather
      than appear in person. It was while in the library that Milo
      overheard whispers. Immediately, he grabbed Ron by the shoulder and
      pulled him behind a stack of shelves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ow!" Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quiet!" Milo hissed. "I heard something!" Ron didn't need to be
      told twice, and didn't make another sound.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well?" someone hissed. "Did you find it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Obviously not," someone else replied. "Or I would have said,
      'hey, guess what, I found it, let's get out of this dive' as soon
      as I saw you, wouldn't I have?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well then where the hell <em class="calibre8">is</em> it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If I knew that—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was a <em class="calibre8">rhetorical</em> question. Could you have missed
      it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. I tore the place apart from floor to ceiling. It wasn't
      there. And before you asked, yes, I used a variant of the Packing
      Charm to put everything back again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe he doesn't have it? Maybe... maybe this is all a set
      up?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's possible, but... can we really take that chance? What if
      he <em class="calibre8">does</em> have it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo's curiosity was beginning to get the better of him. He
      briefly wished he had Harry's cloak on him so he could sneak in and
      get a view of the whisperers, but chided himself for stupidity
      almost immediately, because a) he could just <em class="calibre8">cast</em>
      Invisibility if he wanted to, and b) he was a <em class="calibre8">Wizard</em>,
      dammit, not some skillmonkey scout with more recklessness than hit
      points. He didn't <em class="calibre8">need</em> to sneak. Not personally,
      anyway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Chain of Eyes</em>," Milo muttered as Mordy climbed out of
      his Belt and dropped silently to the floor. Milo fought a brief
      wave of disorientation as he saw through his familiar's eyes.
      <em class="calibre8">Chain of Eyes</em>, which allowed the caster to see from the
      eyes of another creature, was an inferior Divination in most
      respects, but others with similar effects—such as
      <em class="calibre8">Clairvoyance</em> and <em class="calibre8">Arcane Eye</em>—took ten minutes to
      cast. A hundred rounds. Might as well be a lifetime as far as Milo
      was concerned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you hear something?" one of the voices asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just your incessant mouthbreathing," the other snapped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The identity of the speakers was not what Milo was expecting
      (i.e., Lockhart or Snape), to say the least. He was surprised to
      find that the conspirators were none other than Gryffindor NPCs,
      Dean and Seamus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If he <em class="calibre8">does</em> have it," Dean said, "maybe he hid it
      somewhere?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Surely he wouldn't leave something like that out of his sight
      for so long," Seamus scoffed. "No-one would be so... well. Maybe he
      would. He <em class="calibre8">is</em> just a kid, after all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, what do we do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We keep looking; it's all we <em class="calibre8">can</em> do. And we'd better
      hope we find it. For both our sakes." With that, Seamus and Dean
      stood and left the library.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who was it?" Milo heard Ron ask, several shelves away. It was
      <em class="calibre8">weird</em> to see through the eyes of a different body than you
      heard from.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sean and Deamus," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh," Ron said. "Wonder what they're up to?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I... I have no idea," Milo said. "They're looking for
      <em class="calibre8">something</em>. But what? And why all the sneaking and
      whispering?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, mate, they're talking in a <em class="calibre8">library</em>, so
      whispering is sorta, you know, expected."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah... maybe." A subplot involving two completely random NPCs?
      And their <em class="calibre8">roommate</em>s, no less. Whose stuff had they gone
      through? What were they looking for? Who was this 'kid' of which
      they spoke? Milo would have to remind Harry to add it to the Plot
      when he next saw him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione, as was her habit, was sitting on an overstuffed
      armchair near a window—although 'sitting' was perhaps a generous
      word for what she was doing. She was sort of half-sprawled,
      half-lying on the chair in an upside-down manner that only a
      serious lover of reading could understand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, hey Ron, Milo," Hermione said as she saw them, turning a
      page of <em class="calibre8">Dragons of the World</em>, a thick tome that was
      lightly-charred around the edges. "What's up?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We were wondering if you knew where anything that belonged to
      Salazar Slytherin was lying?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm," she asked distractedly. "Why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It'll help me find his Heir," Milo said, explaining the
      <em class="calibre8">Scrying</em> trick.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not necessarily," Hermione said. "Your math is faulty. If the
      spell is failing because the Heir's bonus is too high, there's
      every chance it'll <em class="calibre8">still</em> be too high for your spell. If I
      understand things correctly, there won't be any way for you to tell
      the difference between that and it failing for another reason, like
      that she's protected by a Charm or there's as many Heirs of
      Slytherin as there are of Charlemagne."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I know that. But it <em class="calibre8">still</em>—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If it's also as random as you say it is, it could
      <em class="calibre8">never</em> happen, regardless of the odds."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm well aware—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm just making sure you've considered the possibility that
      this won't work and that it won't prevent you from coming up with a
      backup plan."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fair enough," Milo conceded. "Now, what do you know?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not quite done yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gods, you're worse than the elves! If you ask them for advice,
      they just say both 'yes' and 'no.' You say 'yes, but first hear
      these important disclaimers...'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I prefer to think of it as 'yes, but you're asking the wrong
      question.' Or rather, 'you're not asking the question you think
      you're asking.' The last bit is that there's a chance, and I'd
      guess it's greater than fifty percent simply because of how
      wishy-washy all this 'Heir' business really is, that the legendary
      <em class="calibre8">Heir</em> of Slytherin, if she even exists, isn't the same as
      his <em class="calibre8">legal</em> Heir. We really have no idea how this works. So
      if you <em class="calibre8">do</em> get a belonging of Salazar's, it probably won't
      even help you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All right, all <em class="calibre8">right</em>, now will you help me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," Hermione said happily, sitting up straight and
      setting her book down. "Now, just to be certain: your magic is more
      about the <em class="calibre8">wording</em> of the spell than the <em class="calibre8">meaning</em>,
      correct?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Correct," Milo said, intrigued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, what <em class="calibre8">exactly</em> does the spell say that you
      need?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A possession or garment," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perfect," Hermione said in a satisfied manner. "Now, I could
      list a variety of Slytherin's famous artifacts and you could go on
      a lengthy and difficult hunt for them from across the ends of the
      earth... but I won't do that. You already have what you need;
      you're standing in it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The library?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She smiled. "Yes and no. <em class="calibre8">Hogwarts</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Explain."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The three founders, after Slytherin left, wrote into their
      respective wills that Hogwarts would belong to 'all magical peoples
      of Britannia.' It's in <em class="calibre8">Hogwarts: A History</em>. So assuming
      the Heir is British..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo blinked. He'd always considered himself something of a
      munchkin—it was a point of pride, in fact—but somehow all of his
      accomplishments <em class="calibre8">paled</em> in comparison to the scope of what
      Hermione was suggesting. If it worked, the precedent it would set
      would <em class="calibre8">revolutionize</em> Divination magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, and in case that doesn't work, I had another plan, too,"
      Hermione said. "Here, look at this," she pulled the scrap of
      parchment she'd been using as a bookmark out of her bag as well as
      a quill, and quickly wrote <em class="calibre8">I, Hermione Granger, do hereby
      affirm that I legally give the parchment bearing this writing, of
      which I purchased a dozen for a knut from Flourish and Blotts, to
      the rightful heir of Salazar Slytherin. —Hermione Granger</em>. And
      then she handed it to Milo with an impious grin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I..." Milo didn't even know what to say. She'd just effectively
      rewritten the rules of a core spell twice without even pausing to
      <em class="calibre8">think</em>. "I just... <em class="calibre8">thank you</em>. How did you even
      <em class="calibre8">think</em> that up? Either of them. I mean, they're so...
      so..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Brilliant?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Broken."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I guess I'll take that as a compliment," she said dubiously.
      "Sometimes all it takes is an outsider's perspective."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Best not stand around with your jaw hanging open. A bug will
      fly into it. I take it you two are going to Lockhart's Duelling
      Club? We're almost late."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Today," Draco Malfoy said grandly, "is a very <em class="calibre8">special</em>
      day for the both of you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Crabbe and Goyle stared at him expectantly. Crabbe was
      practically drooling. Goyle <em class="calibre8">was</em> drooling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You had both best prepare yourselves to witness grandeur and an
      acumen for machinations that befits my bent for brilliance, my
      inclination for inspiration, and, indeed, my propensity for
      perspicacity."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Crabbe frowned. "You saying you sweat a lot?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shuttup Goyle, I'm on a roll," Draco snapped. He'd had to check
      a thesaurus out of the library to work out that 'perspicacity' bit.
      "Listen carefully, for I am about to finally reveal my secret plan
      for revenge that I've been hiding for weeks." He'd come up with a
      few nights before in his sleep. "We," he said, pausing
      dramatically, "are going to steal Milo's wand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Won't he just get another?" Crabbe asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, boss, won't he just buy a new one?" Goyle added. Draco
      still hadn't managed to force them to kick that annoying habit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Draco said. "Because I haven't got to the
      <em class="calibre8">brilliant</em> bit, yet. We're going to steal Milo's wand...
      and replace it with this!" With a flourish, Draco drew a wand.
      "Thirteen inches of chestnut wood," he declared proudly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Goyle said. "That's awfully nice of you. Then he won't
      have to spend any money."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, then he won't be, you know, <em class="calibre8">inconvenienced</em>."
      Crabbe looked at him expectantly, and Draco sighed before passing
      over a chocolate frog. He'd taken to encouraging their use of
      multi-syllabic words with sweets.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, it's <em class="calibre8">not</em> very nice," he said from between clenched
      teeth, "because <em class="calibre8">this</em> wand isn't real." He'd had to spend a
      lot of Father's money to get it made on such short notice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I can see it," Grabbe said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, boss," Goyle said, giving the wand a poke. "I can touch
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What I <em class="calibre8">mean</em> is it's not a real <em class="calibre8">wand</em>, not that
      it isn't a real <em class="calibre8">object</em>. It's just a stick of wood. Watch."
      He pointed it at Goyle and waved it about. "<em class="calibre8">Avada
      Kedavra</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Goyle dropped to the floor stiffly and curled up into a ball,
      but aside from that, nothing happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"See? It's harmless. Oh, get up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It took a bit of coaxing and another chocolate frog, but
      eventually Goyle stopped cowering and stood up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The plan gets even <em class="calibre8">more</em> cunning," Draco said
      conspiratorially. "We'll switch their wands—right before Lockhart's
      Duelling Club!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Crabbe and Goyle stared at him blankly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And then I'll duel him!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They still stared at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And he'll lose, because his wand is fake!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But boss," Crabbe said slowly. "I thought you said that wand
      <em class="calibre8">was</em> real?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy considered reacting, but just sighed instead. Dealing
      with those two all day every day was <em class="calibre8">tiring</em>, but Father
      said it was good practice. He'd be dealing with incompetent fools
      his entire life, Father had said, so he'd best get used to it
      early. <em class="calibre8">Few have regretted underestimating the competence of
      those loyal to them</em>, he liked to say, <em class="calibre8">but thousands have
      fallen overestimating it</em>. He said his own father had told him
      the same thing. But Father always added a warning: <em class="calibre8">the reverse
      is true for those whose loyalty is uncertain</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart's club was in an hour, which Draco largely spent doing
      Crabbe and Goyle's homework. Honestly, sometimes he considered just
      letting them fail out and be done with it, but they <em class="calibre8">were</em>
      useful. Sometimes. On occasion. Well, maybe <em class="calibre8">one</em> day they'd
      be useful, especially after Father hired them a hand-to-hand combat
      instructor over the summer. They were still useless at magic—maybe
      Lockhart's club would improve that, but Malfoy had doubts—but,
      hopefully, the humiliating defeat they suffered at Milo's hands
      last year wouldn't be repeated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hopefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco and a cluster of Slytherins—Blaise Zabini, Millicent
      Bulstrode, Pansy Parkinson—as well as a few other of the more eager
      students waited outside the entrance to the Great Hall. Crabbe and
      Goyle were doing their best to appear to be waiting casually at the
      nearest intersection in either direction. For his plan to succeed,
      he needed to be there a little in advance of his target</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He waited, engaging in small talk with his classmates for a few
      minutes before Goyle gave him the signal (a loud fit of heavily
      over-acted fake coughing).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd best go check on him," Draco said to the group, then
      hurried over to where Goyle was standing. Peering around the
      corner, Draco saw his mark approaching. He ducked behind the wall
      and waited for a few seconds, then sprung out from behind the
      corner, colliding directly into Milo, his second-least-favourite
      Gryffindor. They both tumbled to the ground in a heap.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Malfoy!" Weasley shouted in surprise, fumbling for his
      wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Watch where you're going!" Draco said with as much righteous
      anger as he could muster, climbing to his feet and brushing
      nonexistent dust from his robes. Peculiarly, Milo seemed to wait
      for Draco to step away from him before climbing to his feet, as if
      the act of doing so made him temporarily vulnerable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I always look where I'm going," Milo muttered. "It'd be damn
      hard to look anywhere else."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You'll pay for this, mudblood!" Draco hissed to Milo. He wasn't
      <em class="calibre8">actually</em> certain of Milo's blood status, but if he wasn't
      muggleborn, he had very poor choice of company.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, are we doing this again?" Milo said. "Fine, fine, make
      some vaguely-defined threat or whatever. I'll even pretend to care
      this time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ill-defined? I think not!" Draco narrowed his eyes. "I demand
      satisfaction! Wizard's duel."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo's lips quirked into a smile. "Wizard's duel, eh?" he said.
      "How does that work? You and me, magic only?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No weapons other than wands, no direct contact." Draco had seen
      what Milo could do with a staff.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To the death?" Milo asked, somewhat eagerly. That kid freaked
      Draco out sometimes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. You win either by seizing the other wizard's wand, or by
      incapacitating them—unconsciousness or sleep, usually."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I accept." Milo looked like he'd just woken up to discover that
      it was not only his birthday, but Christmas also. Draco was looking
      forward to wiping that smile off his smug face. "Where and
      when?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excellent. During Lockhart's club if he lets us...
      <em class="calibre8">practice</em> on each other like Quirrell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And if not?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Merlin</em>, you ask a lot of questions. I don't know,
      we'll meet in the forest or something, all right? I'll send an
      owl."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But what if—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No more questions. You accepted already. See you in the club."
      With that, Draco spun about on one heel and, flanked by Goyle,
      returned to wait outside the doors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you get it, boss?" Goyle asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, did you grab it, boss?" Crabbe asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco grinned, slipping Milo's wand into his school bag. This
      was going to be an interesting duel...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It had taken some time—lying low slowed everything down to a
      crawl—but Fiona had mapped out what were, as far as she could tell,
      the other Fiona's (and it <em class="calibre8">was</em> another Fiona, and a
      <em class="calibre8">dead</em> Fiona at that) exact steps on September the Seventh.
      It was actually fairly simple, as it turned out, because the other
      her had kept detailed notes. The tricky bit was in convincing Loki
      that the magic had worked, and she'd completely forgotten the
      entire incident. At first, she'd worried about how closely they
      were watching her, but then she'd thought about it, and really...
      not that closely, when it came down to it. They clearly hadn't
      noticed the other Fiona making her audio recording, just as they
      hadn't noticed her digital records on the Machine, or they would
      have destroyed those. Well, they'd certainly <em class="calibre8">tried</em> with
      the Machine, so maybe she couldn't be too certain about that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">More to the point, they hadn't even <em class="calibre8">tried</em> to destroy
      her cassette, meaning they weren't watching her home (at one point
      in the recording, Sprocket's plaintive cries for food were audible,
      so the recording must have been done in her flat). It was possible
      they were watching the station, however, as that had been where
      they'd got the first Fiona. Well, what she <em class="calibre8">hoped</em> was the
      first Fiona; she had no idea how many iterations of this crime
      there had been.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If they weren't watching her home, their surveillance was
      sloppy. She was either dealing with an amateur or someone who
      simply deigned her beneath their notice. She was leaning towards
      the second option, simply because she'd never <em class="calibre8">remembered</em>
      underestimating the enigmatic Loki.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was clear what the other Fiona must have done, because the
      other Fiona had the same lead she had: a name.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dursley.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She itched to tug at that lead like a mosquito bite, but she
      knew she couldn't. Not yet. Doing that was what ended the other
      Fiona. This whole situation getting beyond her—she had only limited
      experience with conducting a full-blown investigation. She was only
      a sergeant, what could she do by herself? She needed allies, she
      needed resources, she needed a warrant—but she knew that nobody
      would believe her story.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And that was why Fiona, for the first time in her life,
      committed a premeditated criminal act. With no known means of
      contacting Loki directly, she was forced to rely on something
      rather more <em class="calibre8">blunt</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She gave the spray can three shakes with one hand, held up the
      stencil she'd cut out ahead of time with her other, and with the
      press of a button defaced the pristine white picket fence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Inspector Hannigan Surrey PD knows about the magic</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And just like that, her trap was set.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Notes:</strong> Turns out having my Teeth of
      Wisdom +2 out was much less conducive to writing than I'd imagined.
      Sorry for the delay, but in return, I present my favourite chapter
      title so far. Alternate titles: <em class="calibre8">I Scry With My Arcane Eye</em>,
      <em class="calibre8">Scry Versus Scry</em>, <em class="calibre8">Scry Versus Spy</em>, <em class="calibre8">For
      Scrying Out Loud</em>, <em class="calibre8">Scry Kids</em>. (I apologize for
      nothing. If you <em class="calibre8">really</em> hated puns, you never would have
      made it through an entire book of something I wrote).</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
