<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 43: CC 10: The Duel, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s6" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 10: The Duel</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Today's Character Sheet:</strong> ?sheetid=628437</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I'm keeping track of Milo's XP offline because it often changes
      several times a chapter and would be a hassle to update the
      character sheet that frequently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With most of the students of Hogwarts (especially those of
      Gryffindor and Slytherin houses) assembled in the Great Hall,
      Lockhart was clearly in his element. Mordy, sitting on Milo's
      shoulder, was frantically transcribing everything the flamboyant
      Defence Professor said for future reference. The rat drew a few
      strange looks from some of the older students who were less
      familiar with Milo's Familiar, especially the Muggleborns. While
      most of those raised by wizards hadn't seen a rat writing by
      dipping its paws into an inkwell, they'd seen enough peculiarity in
      their lives to take such things in stride.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...and, after defeating—or charming, as the case may be—his
      cronies, I duelled him <em class="calibre8">and</em> his giants into submission,
      thus freeing the townsfolk from their terrible curse. You can read
      all about it in <em class="calibre8">Gilderoy Lockhart and the Night of the
      Octopus</em>, an upcoming novella by Angelita Shaw. Be warned that
      her account is somewhat fictionalized—Angelita, unfortunately, was
      forced by her editors to tone down some of the action to make the
      story sound more believable. Alas, but the truth is often stranger
      than fiction. You can always drop by my office if you want the
      <em class="calibre8">real</em> story, of course. Where was I? Ah, yes—duelling. As
      I'm sure you can tell by now, duelling is an important skill that
      is often sadly neglected in this modern world. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo was aware that wanded wizards followed a different mechanic
      for increasing in level than he did, but if it was even
      <em class="calibre8">remotely</em> similar, Lockhart must be one of the most
      powerful wizards alive. The sheer number of encounters he'd won
      boggled the mind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The crowd around Milo jostled a bit as someone tried to duck and
      weave through the throng of students. Milo turned to see Harry,
      covered almost head-to-toe in mud and soaked through, push his way
      between a pair of third-year Ravenclaws.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry I'm late," he said to Milo, Ron, and Hermione, gasping
      for breath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What happened, mate?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wood got me out of bed early for surprise Quidditch practice,"
      Harry said miserably. "It was dreadful."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But look at the weather!" Hermione gestured to the Great Hall
      ceiling. Ominous dark grey clouds hid the sky, pouring rain as if
      Obad-Hai himself had cast <em class="calibre8">Create Water</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My point precisely," Harry said sourly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Prestidigitation</em>," Milo muttered, and, one cubic foot
      at a time, Harry's robes cleaned themselves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks. What'd I miss?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lockhart bragging about his past accomplishments," Ron said.
      "Some of which might even have happened. Also, Malfoy challenged
      Milo here to a duel."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pft," Harry said contemptuously. "<em class="calibre8">That</em> should be fun
      to watch. Just make sure to leave enough of him for the rest of us
      to have our turn."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No promises," Milo grinned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona paced outside the inspector's office somewhat nervously.
      This conversation had to be handled carefully, which was hardly her
      forte. She'd been waiting there for fifteen minutes for Hannigan to
      return from a meeting of some variety. <em class="calibre8">Maybe I should wait
      until tomorrow</em>, she thought to herself. <em class="calibre8">Or come back with
      something more substantial</em>. <em class="calibre8">Yeah. I'll just walk back to
      my desk as if I was never—</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"PS Smythe?" It was Inspector Hannigan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Shit</em>," Fiona muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Excuse</em> me, Sergeant?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shit, sir!" Fiona replied snappily, breaking into a panic. "I
      mean, wait," <em class="calibre8">Oh my god, I just swore in front of the
      inspector</em>. "Dammit!" <em class="calibre8">Shit! I did it again! What the hell
      was I thinking?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you... perhaps need a moment?" Hannigan asked curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah... um. No. Can I talk to you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I rather think that's what we're already doing, sergeant.
      I gather from your... well, from you, that what you mean is, can
      you talk to me in my office? In which case, the answer is yes, but
      I've only got five minutes before a meeting with the Force
      Improvement Team."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona nodded, not quite trusting her mouth. <em class="calibre8">Honestly,
      swearing because you swore... pull yourself together</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um. Perhaps you'd best sit down," she suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannigan shrugged. "I'll only be here a moment, I might as well
      stand; the wife says it's good for the back."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona took a deep breath. <em class="calibre8">Best get this over with as fast as
      possible. Like ripping off a bandage.</em> "Inspector, there's no
      easy way to say this, but you've had your memory altered by
      magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannigan stared at her blankly for a second, looking for all the
      world like an English student trying to parse 'Jabberwocky' for the
      first time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, as I told you, I'm quite busy," he said irritably. "So if
      you don't have anything <em class="calibre8">important</em> to say, I suggest you go
      on your way and we forget about this little joke. Some office prank
      or dare, I presume? No matter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm dead serious, inspector."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Magic," the inspector said flatly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, sir. Magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean PCP?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, sir. I mean sorcery. Enchantments. Witchcraft. Like in the
      books."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're putting me on." It was not a question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, sir." Fiona pulled her tape recorder from her pocket and
      placed it on the desk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't suppose you have any proof of this ... this... well,
      whatever this is!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona pressed play.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Excuse me, sir,</em>" she heard her own voice say.
      "<em class="calibre8">Could you do me a quick favour?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Well, I suppose, sergeant. What can I do for you?</em>" It
      was the inspector.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">If you don't mind, I'm going to press record, here, and
      then say a bunch of stuff that you're not really going to
      understand, and all I want is for you to listen and then confirm at
      the end that you heard it.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The inspector stared at Fiona peculiarly, then looked down at
      the tape, an unspoken question on his lips. Instead of saying
      anything, however, he just listened to the recording.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">What's this for?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">A surprise. You'll see, sir.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">I'm not going to regret this, am I?</em>"<br class="calibre4"/>
      There was a short period of silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">No-one can know the future, sir.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Hmph. Very well, get on with it.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Magic is real, sir, near as I can tell. Someone's been
      using it to alter the memory of the police in this station to
      forget as soon as we discover it, and someone used it to assault me
      and my partner, PC Evan Travis, at Number 4, Privet Drive in Little
      Whinging on July 31</em><em class="calibre8">st</em><em class="calibre8">, and then to facilitate a
      jailbreak from this station. During this event, the display on the
      Machine was destroyed, and the memories of several officers,
      ourselves included, was replaced with a fictitious series of
      events. Allegedly, a junkie that was brought to the station got
      loose and smashed up some property before being detained and
      transferred. However, I've checked, and there's no proper
      documentation for</em> any <em class="calibre8">of this.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">What, really? I'll be having a word with some people over
      that. Oh, right, sorry, I'm not to interrupt.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">No, that's quite all right; I'm about done anyway. There's
      more, but I can tell you after. So, sir, can you please confirm
      what you heard?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">A</em> fascinating <em class="calibre8">tale about magic and memory
      modification and such.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">And what is the date today?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Ah—the eighteenth of September, I believe</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">And would you agree that, theoretically speaking, if
      tomorrow you hear this recording and don't remember it, that you'll
      accept what I said as true?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Inspector Hannigan looked up at Fiona, a strange look on his
      face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Well, yes, I suppose that would follow. Unless I'm sloshed,
      of course. Now, what was all this about?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Surprise, sir</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona stopped the recording.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well." The inspector sat down heavily on his old, worn leather
      chair with a slightly dazed expression. "That's that, then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sir? Believe me, I know it can be a lot—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The chair's seen something new. So. Magic?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Magic, sir."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, sir."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tell me everything, sergeant. Start from the beginning."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your meeting, sir?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bugger the meeting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So she told him everything, starting from the beginning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It wasn't long before Lockhart had them all pair off and try to
      disarm each other, much as Quirrell—well, Voldemort, really—had.
      Unlike He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named, Lockhart apparently hadn't felt
      that padded mats were a necessary precaution. Harry wound up with
      Hermione, Ron with Neville, Hannah with Lavender, and Milo, of
      course, with Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Afraid yet, freak?" Draco sneered at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, wake up, Malfoy," Milo shrugged. "My rat Mordenkainen could
      duel you one-handed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco did a double-take. "Your rat—who?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mordenkainen," Milo said. "My rat." He gestured to the back of
      the room, where Milo's Familiar was lurking, waiting to take notes
      on various Slytherins' fighting styles and generally level of
      competency. Milo raised his left hand. "One-handed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Agh! Never mind! Draw your wand, freak, and prepare to see what
      a pureblooded wizard is capable of!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, like your dad and his friends?" Milo said dismissively,
      drawing his wand. "Eh."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy snapped. "You'll pay for your insolence!" he shouted, his
      face mottled with fury. "<em class="calibre8">Everte Statum</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo was lifted off his feet and thrown bodily against the wall
      behind him. "<em class="calibre8">Feather Fall</em>!" he cast, surprised, and slowed
      to the ground. "<em class="calibre8">Grease</em>!" Milo targeted the area that Draco
      was standing on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco almost lost his balance, but reacted quickly. "What! How?
      <em class="calibre8">Colloshoo</em>," he cast at his own feet, sticking him to the
      ground. "<em class="calibre8">Expelliarmus</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Greater Mirror Image</em>." Four identical Milo's appeared
      around him, all still floating in the air as Milo descended. One
      was hit by <em class="calibre8">Expelliarmus</em>, and burst into tiny fragments of
      magic. Milo wasn't worred—the images from the improved version of
      the spell regenerated in time. He was certain he could end this
      duel any moment he wanted to, but decided to take advantage of his
      school-sanctioned chance to get a couple of free hits off on Draco.
      "<em class="calibre8">Glitterdust</em>." The area around Draco exploded into
      thousands of tiny motes of brilliant golden light.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Scourgify</em>," Draco cast, and the area around his eyes
      cleared up, allowing him to see. Milo was surprised—nobody else
      he'd used <em class="calibre8">Glitterdust</em> on had thought of that. On the other
      hand, Draco might be one of the only wanded wizards he'd fought who
      had seen him fight before... "<em class="calibre8">Oppugno</em>!" Draco shouted. The
      <em class="calibre8">Glitterdust</em> flew off of him and directly at Milo, with a
      menace. <em class="calibre8">Come on, Will save, don't fail me now...</em> Milo had
      a +8 bonus and the DC was 18, so he had around a 55% chance to
      succeed. Anything over ten would do...</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Four</em>. <em class="calibre8">Crap</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gah!" Milo said, the light blinding him. "Who fails a save
      against their own spell? <em class="calibre8">Mordy</em>!" Milo's familiar scrambled
      from his position and onto Milo's shoulder. "<em class="calibre8">Chain of
      Eyes</em>." Milo couldn't believe he'd actually cast that spell
      twice now—most Wizards lived and died (or achieved godhood) without
      even learning it. It was approaching time to finish this charade.
      He'd have to investigate more efficient means of fighting while
      blind, preferably ones that didn't require a second-level spell
      slot and an action in combat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Through Mordenkainen's eyes, Milo saw Draco grin, and realized
      what had happened: by commanding his familiar to come to him, Milo
      had given away which of his identical clones—there were five,
      now—was really him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Serpensortia</em>," Draco whispered. A long, night-black
      snake shot out of his wand and shot towards Milo. He briefly
      considered using <em class="calibre8">Tongues</em> to mimic a Parselmouth's ability,
      but dismissed the idea. The last thing he wanted was people to
      think that <em class="calibre8">he</em> was the Heir of Slytherin. As the snake
      approached, Milo drew his darkwood eleven-foot pole, wielding it in
      both hands as an improvised reach weapon while simultaneously
      readying a spell. The snake leapt through the air, and, as it
      entered within Milo's reach, provoked an attack of opportunity.
      Rather than attempt to strike the snake, which wouldn't have a hope
      of success with the mountain of penalties Milo would incur, he used
      Evasive Reflexes to sidestep away from the snake. Milo let the pole
      fall to the ground, and called his Elven thinblade to hand just as
      the snake soared past him and through his now-threatened area.
      Milo's pirouetted, sword flashing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were two meaty thuds behind him before the now-dead
      magical snake vanished, the magic holding it together gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo spun, towards Draco, releasing his readied spell.
      "<em class="calibre8">Evard's Black Tentacles</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hundreds of black tentacles burst from the floor around Draco,
      grabbing his arms and pulling him awkwardly—his feet were still
      glued to the floor—to the ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mordy," Milo nodded, sheathing his sword in his Belt of Hidden
      Pouches. The familiar scurried from Milo's shoulder towards the
      struggling Draco and, with a casual flick of its paw, grabbed the
      Slytherin boy's wand before doing a little bow. Milo dismissed the
      tentacles and <em class="calibre8">Grease</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You—you cheated!" Draco shouted, climbing to his feet. "And
      give me that back!" Mordy shrugged, dropped the wand, and returned
      to Milo.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cheated?" Milo asked, thinking back over the rules. "Huh. I
      guess I did." He'd forgotten that no other weapons than wands were
      allowed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was then that Milo realized they had an audience.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The rest of the Club had, at some point, abandoned any pretense
      of practicing on each other in favour of watching their battle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Ah, crap</em>. There was no way he was going to walk away
      from this without some ridiculous detention. Milo wondered if he
      should start researching a means of getting <em class="calibre8">Simulacrum</em>
      early so he could send an identical copy of himself to do
      punishments for him. That would also get him out of McGonagall's
      ridiculous remedial Transfigurations.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I daresay," Lockhart said, breaking the silence. "I've
      <em class="calibre8">never</em> seen a duel quite like that—that didn't include me
      in it, of course. A remarkable show from both of you. Five points
      for Slytherin, ten points for Hufflepuff!" Lockhart hesitated for a
      second. "I <em class="calibre8">did</em> say 'disarm-only,' however, so if anyone
      tries something like that again, I'll have to take rather
      <em class="calibre8">sterner</em> measures."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But—but I'm in Gryffindor!" Milo protested, but nobody heard
      him over the sudden thunderous applause. <em class="calibre8">They should have
      identifying markings on our robes</em>, Milo thought.
      <em class="calibre8">Colour-coordinated trim or badges or something</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the applause died down, Milo heard some bitter muttering from
      the Slytherin section, though he didn't catch who was speaking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...probably showing off for Lockhart..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...they say he scored perfect on that ridiculous quiz..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...they also say he Petrified Peeves..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Any attempt at eavesdropping was cut off by a crowd of students
      from his own house.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Spectacular!" Fred Weasley said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Brilliant!" added his twin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The expression on Malfoy's face when you used those tentacle
      thingies—perfect!" Ron said, a dreamy expression on his face. "I
      just wish someone had taken a photograph..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought he almost had you with the snake," Harry said. "I was
      this close to..." he lowered his voice, "you know, to telling it to
      stop, but... with all the people around... well, I thought you
      could probably handle it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I just thought I should say that was <em class="calibre8">extremely
      dangerous</em> and I'm amazed nobody was hurt—Draco could have
      thrown you clear out the window—and that I strongly disapprove,
      but..." Hermione's face cracked into a smile. "Congratulations
      nevertheless. He had that coming, the git."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That thing with the sword—that was so cool!" Hannah said. "How
      did you <em class="calibre8">do</em> that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Magic," Milo grinned. "I've got a pin enchanted with a
      spell—<em class="calibre8">Mirror Move</em>—that lets me learn how to do pretty much
      anything that I see someone else do, and a
      spell—<em class="calibre8">Heroics</em>—that lets me temporarily teach someone else
      how to do things, so I just grabbed Ron over the summer, pumped him
      full of magic and—" but nobody was really listening to him; they
      were too busy excitedly recounting the details of the duel.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought he had you when he used your glittered dust against
      you," he heard Neville say. "Showed him. Killed the snake blind...
      amazing. Just bloody amazing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shame Dean and Seamus weren't here," Harry said. "They'd have
      loved that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah..." Milo frowned, looking around—<em class="calibre8">Glitterdust</em> had
      worn off, but he was still using Mordy's vision to get a little
      extra height (his familiar had moved to the top of his head) to see
      over the other students. Probably sixty-to-seventy percent of
      Hogwarts' students were at the club. That left most of the school
      completely unwatched... "Mordy," Milo muttered in their secret
      language. "Go check on Seamus and Dean, would you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sometimes I feel like I do everything around here," the rat
      muttered, climbing down Milo's robes and scurrying out of the
      hall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right, calm down, everybody," Lockhart said, his voice
      magically augmented to carry over the crowd. "Pick your partners,
      and let's try it again. Try to stick to <em class="calibre8">Expelliarmus</em> this
      time..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo, already critically short on spells, decided to sit this
      one out. Besides, he'd already earned more XP than his weekly loss
      from item crafting. Instead, he picked a place on the sidelines and
      watched the fights progress.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He barely noticed the first instance—he'd been watching Hannah's
      match with Lavender—and dismissed the second as chance, but by the
      third time, it was clear. Neville was improving, <em class="calibre8">fast</em>. Out
      of five rounds, Ron had only managed to disarm him once. Milo
      recalled in Quirrell's class that Neville had seemed to have a hard
      time learning the Disarming Charm, but now that he had it... well.
      Milo was hardly an expert in the local magic, but his latest theory
      was that it was skill-based. In order to cast a spell, a skill
      check had to be made with a DC based on the complexity of the
      spell. Neville was making that check almost every time. He wasn't
      the fastest at it, and he wasn't the most confident, but he did
      seem to be having more reliable success than most other students,
      save for those of higher years.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The other surprising battle was between Harry and Hermione. The
      surprise was that Harry was <em class="calibre8">winning</em>. Hermione was a
      bookworm with near-eidetic memory in a world where knowledge was
      quite literally power, and Milo would have bet money on her against
      any wizard or witch of the same level. Harry, it seemed, had been
      practicing this spell in particular—though Milo hadn't ever seen
      him do it. As for the others, while they didn't stand out in quite
      the same way that Harry and Neville were, they'd clearly advanced
      at a rate that simply dwarfed their abilities even at the end of
      last term. Still nothing like what the sixth-and-seventh-years at
      the far side of the Great Hall were doing, but nevertheless
      impressive.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo wondered if he could try to help Harry and the others
      progress at an even faster rate. The only thing better than a
      highly-optimized character was a party of highly-optimized
      characters.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo's chain of thought was broken by an empathic sending by
      Mordy. <em class="calibre8">Success, alarm, surprise</em>. Using the still-active
      <em class="calibre8">Chain of Eyes</em> to switch back to his familiar's vision, he
      saw the familiar sight of the second-year dormitory in Gryffindor
      Tower—though from the peculiar view of a rat only a few inches
      tall. Irritatingly, he couldn't hear anything (the spell was called
      <em class="calibre8">Chain of Eyes</em>, not <em class="calibre8">Chain of Ears</em>) but he could
      see just fine.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dean and Seamus were going through <em class="calibre8">his</em> stuff, as well
      as Harry's, Neville's, and Ron's. Not that he actually <em class="calibre8">had</em>
      any stuff, of course; he kept everything he owned in his Belt of
      Hidden Pouches (except for his Dedicated Wright, Cog, and his
      mountain of salt, but those were at the Burrow) by using owl post
      to send partially completed items back and forth, Milo could
      provide the necessary spells and XP while Cog provided the time and
      effort. Upon finding all of Milo's drawers, as well as the space
      under and even over his four-poster bed, they moved onto the other
      occupants of the dorm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">So... they were talking about</em> me <em class="calibre8">in the library?
      But what could</em> I <em class="calibre8">possibly have that they want?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo heard a commotion, and flicked his vision back to his own
      eyes. The Club was over, and people were filing out of the Great
      Hall's doors. His party members were waiting around him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Coming, Milo?" Hermione asked him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm? Right, yeah." He got to his feet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whoa, <em class="calibre8">what</em>?" Harry said suddenly, reaching for his
      wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah... what's up, Harry?" Ron asked cautiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The voice!" Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What... what voice?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You—you didn't hear it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um. Nope."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hang on," Milo said. "What did it say?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um," Harry said nervously. "Something weird. About ripping,
      tearing, and killing. Ah. Me, specifically."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you certain?" Hermione asked Harry, who nodded. "Did you,
      you know <em class="calibre8">hear</em> it—with your ears, that is? Or, in your
      head?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not sure I'd know the difference," Harry said. "I don't exactly
      hear voices in my head regularly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Lesser Telepathic Bond</em>," Milo cast. <em class="calibre8">It would sound
      like this</em>, he thought towards Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whoa. Nope. Not like that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not like what?" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The, ah, voice I just heard... in my head..." Harry explained
      unhelpfully. Ron and Hermione stared at him blankly. "Look, Milo
      did it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Ah</em>," they said together, as if that explained
      everything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So could it be something invisible, do you think?" Hermione
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Detect Invisibility</em>," Milo cast, scanning around. "I
      don't see anything invisible, but that doesn't count for much in
      these parts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe it was some kinda prank," Ron suggested. "Like a trick
      from Malfoy, to freak you out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Possible," Hermione said. "I can think of loads of ways to do
      it with pretty common spells. Still, if it happens again, we should
      tell a teacher."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I dunno, Hermione," Ron said. "Hearing voices isn't usually
      seen as a good sign, even in the wizarding world. I'm not saying
      you're crazy, mate, but, well, it could <em class="calibre8">look</em> that way to
      people. Best keep it between us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo switched his vision back to Mordy's, but Dean and Seamus
      were gone. The room was pristine once more—as with their earlier
      conversation, they must have used the Packing Charm to put things
      back where they were. Was his room the same as the one that Dean
      had already searched? Why would they come back? Perhaps Seamus
      hadn't trusted the job Dean had done? Milo needed more
      information.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco sat down in an emerald-green armchair in the Slytherin
      Common Room, looking at Milo's wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Lumos</em>," he muttered. The wand tip glowed feebly and
      sputtered out a few seconds later. "Impossible," he muttered. This
      wand was real—it resisted working for him, but there was no doubt
      that this was a wizard's wand. And yet, the freak had managed to
      use magic anyway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Had Milo used another wand in the duel? It wasn't impossible
      that he had a spare, although Ollivander charged a small fortune
      for a copy wand. Apparently, it was much more difficult to make a
      wand identical to a previous wand rather than simply create them
      all differently. But Draco had seen Milo draw his wand from the
      same pocket that Draco had put the fake one into, and there had
      been only one there. So how...?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Could it be that... no, that would be impossible. Unless...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco frowned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Crabbe! Goyle!" he shouted, and the two came rushing out of
      their dorm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you need, boss?" Crabbe asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah boss, what do you find <em class="calibre8">equineccessary</em>, boss?"
      Goyle asked, holding out his hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That word doesn't mean what you think it does," Draco muttered
      idly. "So no chocolate for you." He looked up at the two of them.
      "Milo could use magic in that duel," he said quietly, "so he had to
      have had a proper wand. That means that he must have switched wands
      with me <em class="calibre8">before</em> I switched them with him, then switched
      <em class="calibre8">back</em> during the duel. He probably had that weird rat of
      his do it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But... what?" Crabbe asked. Clearly it had gone beyond him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Goyle scratched his head. "Had to have... had..." he said to
      himself, slowly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What I'm saying is <em class="calibre8">he must have known what my plan
      was</em>!" Draco shouted. "So—" he froze, suddenly. So one of them
      <em class="calibre8">must</em> have told him. But neither Crabbe nor Goyle would
      have done so, so...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Maybe...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At least one of them <em class="calibre8">wasn't</em> Crabbe or Goyle—and were
      therefore the last people he should be voicing his suspicions
      to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Agh!" Draco shouted dramatically. "He's outsmarted me
      again!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of course, he <em class="calibre8">hadn't</em> been outsmarted; <em class="calibre8">nobody</em>
      outsmarts Draco Malfoy. But they seemed convinced, and made feeble
      attempts at consoling him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">So... Polyjuice?</em> Draco thought. What was it they'd
      learned in Herbology? <em class="calibre8">Mandrake root restored people who had
      been Transfigured</em>. Fortunately, he knew just where to get
      some.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did they say anything?" Milo asked Mordy in the Common Room. He
      wasn't afraid of being overheard; their secret language was, by
      definition, uncrackable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not much," the familiar replied. "Just a lot of swearing and
      blaming each other for failure."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Odd," Milo said. "I've never really paid them much attention,
      but Dean and Seamus seemed like pretty good friends."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"About that," Mordy said. "I wasn't sure before, but now I am.
      That <em class="calibre8">wasn't</em> Dean and Seamus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Milo asked. "How could you tell?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"By the smell. They smell... different. Not completely
      different, but somewhat different. A bit like... like two people
      mixed into one. In Seamus's case, I think one of those people is
      female."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How come you didn't notice this earlier? We sleep in the same
      room as them!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You and I have the same skills, and Scent is Survival-based!
      What Wizard has <em class="calibre8">ever</em> put ranks in Survival?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah... fair point," Milo conceded. "I forgot about that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course you did. Who reads the Scent rules? Not
      <em class="calibre8">Wizards</em>, that's for sure."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll make you teensy little goggles or something that boost
      Survival. They'll be adorable."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mordy's eyes narrowed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I mean badass. They'll be badass. Easy words to mistake."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You do realize that, seeing as how we're empathically bonded,
      it's completely impossible for you to lie to me, don't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes—which is why I wouldn't possibly have tried to lie. And if
      anything makes you think otherwise, you must be mistaken."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mordy just shook his head. "So what do you think it is?
      Possession? The Imperius curse?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not sure," Milo said. "But we have ways of finding
      out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Roleplaying Tip:</strong> This one's more roleplay-y
      than 'over-the-top munchkinry' like many of my D&amp;D Tips, but
      I've found that nothing helps you get into character and stay there
      like drawing your character. Once, someone playing an illiterate
      barbarian in my party <em class="calibre8">drew all of his items on his character
      sheet</em>, rather than writing them. You don't have to go that
      far, however. Even if you don't have any artistic talent at all,
      you can use something like Heromachine (a web app designed for
      creating superheroes, but works for D&amp;D—and other rpgs—too) to
      do the work for you. Having an illustration of your character
      somewhere on your character sheet helps remind you that your
      character is an independent entity with a personality and goals
      that may not be the same as your 'meta-goals' (become the best
      wizard ever, get sweet magic loot, etc.). Ideally, these should not
      be in conflict with each other (a holy paladin on a crusade for
      justice and goodness wouldn't be doing his job right if he didn't
      seize every opportunity to be more effective at what he does), but
      it's nice to be reminded that they're separate, and that your
      character might want things in addition to what is strictly
      pragmatic. Optimization is a blast, roleplaying is a blast, but the
      best by far is when you do both simultaneously. There's a weird
      idea that they're mutually exclusive, which I think is untrue. Some
      people might prioritize one or the other, or be naturally inclined
      one way or the other, but that's separate from being unable to do
      them both.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wow, that devolved into a tangent quickly. Sorry about that—but
      I think I'll let it stand. In return, I'll give a more typical tip
      as well. This one doesn't devolve into theoretical optimization, so
      you can actually use it around the table.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">D&amp;D Tip:</strong> You can make attacks with more
      than just your two hands, for example, an unarmed strike can be
      with any part of the body. Similarly, armour spike attacks, which
      don't require their own feat to be effective, can be delivered via
      a spiky knee to the stomach or a body slam. Why does this matter?
      Because it <em class="calibre8">leaves your hands free</em>. There are many reasons
      one would need their hands for something else—for example, when
      using a ranged weapon. If you're a ranged combatant in a class with
      martial weapon proficiency, such as a Ranger, you can still
      threaten squares, flank, and make attacks of opportunity with
      armour spikes and other unconventional weapons (Complete Scoundrel
      adds some weapons like boot daggers, but they have a -2 to attack,
      so I recommend armour spikes). Even if you have a terrible strength
      score, I recommend such a weapon strongly, if only for the flanking
      benefits you can provide your teammates. Even if you never
      <em class="calibre8">intend</em> to fight in melee, at some point, someone will try
      to fight <em class="calibre8">you</em>. Your rogue will thank you, at the very
      least.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For some kinds of melee fighters, armour spikes are even
      <em class="calibre8">more</em> important. For example, say you use a reach weapon
      like a Glaive. These come with the downside of not being able to
      attack, or threaten, enemies adjacent to you, which can be a
      serious problem. However, with armour spikes, you never have to
      drop your polearm and switch to a backup weapon—the backup weapon
      is built in, and you can't be disarmed of it. This allows you to
      threaten a much larger area, making you more effective overall at
      whatever you do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In addition to weapons with reach, armour spikes (and unarmed
      strike, etc.) are <em class="calibre8">awesome</em> for two-weapon fighting. Both
      your hands are free, so you can dual wield a one-handed weapon and
      the spikes and still leave room for a shield, or, for ludicrous
      damage, you can use a weapon like a greatsword in both hands with
      1.5x strength and still make off-hand attacks with armour spikes
      (with only .5x strength added). Note that it's generally better to
      use Power Attack with a two-handed weapon than to two-weapon fight,
      but if you're a class that gets a lot of bonus damage (like a
      swordsage or sneak attacker) then this is the combo for you.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Note: Pathfinder developers recently ruled in a FAQ that you
      can't do this, but it still works just fine in D&amp;D.</em></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
