<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 44: CC 11: Trick or Treat, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s7" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 11: Trick or Treat</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <em class="calibre8">SKITTERskitterskitter</em>—<em class="calibre8">SKITTERskitterskitter</em>.<p class="calibre6"></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah awoke with a jolt. She was sitting in the Common Room,
      having fallen asleep doing History of Magic homework. <em class="calibre8">What the
      heck was that sound?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">SKITTERskitterskitter</em>. It sounded a bit like rain, only
      heavier and more infrequent—and it was coming from inside the
      room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Suspicions growing, Hannah reached for her wand. The fires had
      long since been reduced to simple glowing embers, but the room was
      somewhat lit by moonlight streaking through the tall, wide arched
      windows. She thought she could see movement at the foot of the
      staircase near the boy's dormitories.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">SKITTERskitterskitterSKITTERSKITTERSKITTER</em>—</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah threw herself from her armchair just before a monster
      from nightmares (was this a nightmare?) leapt at her, knocking the
      chair over. A long, thin <em class="calibre8">something</em> almost thirty feet long
      collided with the red-and-gold armchair like a freight train. She
      could barely make it out in the darkness, save for occasional
      glimpses of reflected moonlight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"St-stube-stupa-<em class="calibre8">Stupefy</em>!" A red bolt flew out of her
      wand as she sent a Stunner, which collided with the creature
      dead-on. They'd just learned them in the Duelling Club; the
      advanced spell was almost beyond her. The beast skittered around
      awkwardly as its extremities slowly realized their brain was on a
      lunch break before coming, finally, to a stop. "<em class="calibre8">Lumos</em>."
      Her glowing wand tip revealed a black-and-red centipede comparable
      in length to a carriage of the Hogwarts Express with sharp
      mandibles (or fangs? pincers? Hannah wasn't sure which term
      applied) to match. They were at least as long as her forearm, and
      were wickedly serrated. Just as suddenly as it appeared, it
      promptly vanished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah sighed, catching her breath, and collapsed back into her
      seat. A few seconds later, she stood up, and shouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Milo</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well done!" Milo said, suddenly appearing in the middle of the
      room. "I must admit, I had my doubts when you immediately went for
      the most powerful spell you knew—clever application of something
      more reliably cast is often more prudent—but then you pulled it off
      anyway and your aim was <em class="calibre8">perfect</em>. Awesome."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What the heck <em class="calibre8">was</em> that thing?" Hannah asked, anger
      slowly rising.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A huge monstrous centipede from Hell," Milo shrugged. "Or
      someplace like it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look—I know I said I was on board with your whole 'training'
      thing, but the way you described it sounded more like, I don't
      know, Quidditch practice or studying. You summon a monster and we
      hit it with spells. I was most decidedly <em class="calibre8">not</em> expecting to
      spend the next four weeks on my toes against surprise sabre-toothed
      demon weasels, hippogriffs, gorillas, bats the size of horses,
      packs of Abyssal octopi in the lake, and humongous monstrous
      centipedes from Hell! <em class="calibre8">Especially</em> humongous monstrous
      centipedes from Hell!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Real Abyssal octopi hunt in packs of hundreds," Milo said. "Not
      trios."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">That's</em> your objection—argh! No, okay. Calm. I am
      <em class="calibre8">calm</em>," Hannah said. "I agreed because I wanted to be more
      useful in an emergency. I didn't sign on for a life of surprise and
      paranoia."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, if you were expecting the surprise, it wouldn't be much
      of a surprise at all, would it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's exactly my point. I could have had a heart attack, and
      <em class="calibre8">that's</em> assuming the giant rats didn't eat me alive."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You were never in any real danger; my summoned monsters were
      ordered to remain non-lethal. And in the huge monstrous centipede
      from Hell's case, not to use his venom."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But <em class="calibre8">why</em> can't the others and I learn to fight in a
      more controlled environment? Like in the Duelling Club."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because if Slytherin's monster—or something sent by
      You-Know-Who—attacks you, it <em class="calibre8">won't</em> be in a controlled
      environment," Milo said seriously. "It'll be a surprise attack, and
      it'll be when you least expect it. And you won't even know what
      it'll look like when it happens. From what I can tell, and I know
      it sounds insane, people here actually learn how to do things by
      doing exactly that thing. I mean, look at the courses. You
      <em class="calibre8">actually</em> learn how to make potions in <em class="calibre8">Potions
      class</em>, rather than by killing orcs and giant spiders and
      saving children and the like. So I'm teaching you how to fight
      against surprise monsters."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That... fine, that actually makes sense," Hannah admitted
      reluctantly. "But you should still ask for permission first. It's
      the polite thing to do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm. Good idea; I wonder why I didn't think of that," Milo said
      without a trace of irony. "If only so Ron stops glaring at me from
      across the table. He should learn not to take a few giant bees in
      his bed quite so personally. Do I have your permission to train you
      to protect yourself against surprise attacks by launching surprise
      attacks against you on occasion?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not when I'm sleeping or I'll never close my eyes again—and
      <em class="calibre8">no more Hellipedes</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Deal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah hesitated for a second. "And I think you're wrong," she
      said. "I think we learn in much the same way. I think you're
      confusing gaining knowledge and gaining power. People tend not to
      learn much by killing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo gave her a perplexed look. "But knowledge <em class="calibre8">is</em>
      power."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is it, though?" Hannah asked. "There's more to growing up than
      getting bigger." She stifled a yawn. "Just something to think
      about. I'm going to bed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She climbed the stairs to the girls' dormitories, leaving Milo
      looking troubled in the Common Room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco held the writhing, shrieking mandrake root down with one
      gloved hand, a cleaver held high in the other.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why do they have to look so <em class="calibre8">human</em>?" he muttered to
      himself. The words fell silently on his muffled ears. He'd been
      standing for several minutes in the outskirts of the Forbidden
      Forest in the dead of night.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He supposed it wasn't too late to back out now. He could sneak
      back into the greenhouse and return the freakish plant—or, for that
      matter, just toss it in the forest. <em class="calibre8">Plants like forest, right?
      It would be happy there...</em> he cut off that line of thought
      before it could go too far. Best not to attribute human emotions
      and desires to a root.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">But it</em> looks <em class="calibre8">so alive...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Father <em class="calibre8">wouldn't be too weak to chop up a</em> plant, he
      thought to himself coldly. Father <em class="calibre8">would destroy whatever or
      whoever stood in his way, if it benefitted him</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Besides, they're going to be used for potions,
      anyway</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco led out a deep breath and swallowed, feeling a renewed
      sense of determination.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a flash of reflected starlight, the cleaver came down hard,
      and the shrieking stopped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape finished sealing the hardened glass flask for owl
      transport. The last thing anyone wanted was a month's worth of
      Polyjuice potion raining from the sky because of a poorly sealed or
      cracked container.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once more, he wondered what Lucius could possibly want with so
      much of the potion. He'd already had to send all that he kept on
      hand to the elder Malfoy, as Polyjuice took a lunar cycle to brew.
      Of course, there were thousands of potential uses someone like
      Lucius, who had his fingers in more pies than you could count,
      could devise with Polyjuice. Blackmail, spying, and theft, to name
      a few. And if that was all he was doing, it was none of Snape's
      business. He frankly didn't care one way or the other if Lucius was
      committing what were, on the whole, conventional crimes to gain
      conventional wealth and conventional power.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But if there was something else afoot... well. Lucius Malfoy was
      rarely a predictable man, but there was one clear and obvious
      candidate for replacement. Somebody that few knew personally,
      somebody in a trusted position, somebody few would miss. Everything
      pointed at one person. In fact, it was practically proverbial:
      "when in doubt, suspect the Defence Professor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape tied the flask to the legs of the owl and sent it on its
      way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The amount of damage one man, whom everybody suspected and who
      had no allies, could do was limited, even with a disguise as
      perfect as one created by one of Snape's potions. So Snape would
      watch Gilderoy Lockhart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Free sweets!" Draco said, smiling, to a cluster of first-year
      Hufflepuffs. They turned to look at him, and his tray of handmade
      sweets, for a long, tense moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then they screamed and fled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco sighed. This was going to be more difficult than he'd
      anticipated. He'd already tried dosing all the Slytherins in the
      Common Room with his mandrake-laced treats, but he hadn't made any
      discoveries except that Marcus Flint had been transfiguring his
      face to hide his acne.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hallowe'en was only a few days away. He'd hoped to get to the
      bottom of the Polyjuice mystery before then, so that he could
      utilize Crabbe and Goyle in some sort of as-yet unknown
      Hallowe'en-themed revenge plot against his nemeses in Gryffindor.
      While it was true that both Crabbe and Goyle had been unaffected by
      the mandrake root—he'd given it to them disguised as sweets to
      reward them for expanding their vocabulary—he'd hoped to catch the
      culprit disguised as them once more. Since he didn't know much
      beyond the fact that <em class="calibre8">somebody</em> had (probably) used
      Polyjuice to spy on him, there was no way to know how pervasive the
      use of the potion was among his enemies.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd come to what was, of course, the only reasonable
      conclusion: that he should secretly drug the student body at random
      for a prolonged period of time. At some point, one of them was
      <em class="calibre8">bound</em> to take the bait while in disguise. It was the week
      leading up to Hallowe'en, so it wasn't as peculiar to be handing
      out sweets as it might otherwise have been. Unfortunately, students
      at Hogwarts seemed to have some sort of (completely unfounded)
      superstition against accepting free food from a member of Slytherin
      house.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd have to alter his plan somewhat if he was to succeed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Explosive Runes</em>," Milo cast, scratching a
      curious-looking symbol into the hard bronze of a knut with a chisel
      before throwing it onto the small pile of similarly-marked coins.
      "That should do. Mordy?" The tiny rat scurried up the table leg in
      the dusty abandoned classroom and started slipping knuts into a
      bandolier he wore across his chest, eyes firmly shut. "Careful with
      those," Milo said seriously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't worry so much, boss," Mordy said. "As long as I don't try
      and read them, we don't have anything to worry about." That much
      was true—the runes were carved in their secret language, and Milo
      was immune to his own traps, so theoretically only Mordy could
      trigger them. Still, it made Milo nervous to carry that volume of
      arcane high explosive on his person.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But Hallowe'en was tomorrow, and he had to be prepared. Last
      year a Troll nearly killed him and his friends; what would happen
      this year? Between his surprise summoned attacks and Lockhart's
      club, his party members had significantly increased in power since
      last year—and so had he, for that matter. It stood both to reason
      and convention that their challenges would scale accordingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Milo tried to predict what would be thrown at him tomorrow,
      Mordy pulled a pair of tiny, finely-wrought brass-and-crystal
      goggles over his eyes and tied thin silk bracers around each wrist.
      In all, the familiar struck a comical image, but it would be a fool
      who underestimated him—and in all likelihood, a dead fool at that,
      for these seemingly-innocent items wielded great power. Or, perhaps
      more precisely, they wielded minor power in a uniquely
      <em class="calibre8">lethal</em> manner.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I give up," said a boy who looked very much like Dean Thomas in
      a dark, largely-empty hallway on Hallowe'en morning. "We've been
      here for a month and we haven't found <em class="calibre8">anything</em>. This is a
      school; there are <em class="calibre8">hundreds</em> of old black leather diaries
      floating around. I want to go home."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can't give up now; we're just starting to make progress,"
      said someone who looked very much like Seamus Finnigan. "We just
      need to widen the search. What if he gave it to another
      student?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nobody could be that stupid."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you have any better ideas?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Every</em> idea is a better idea."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As they walked, arguing, they encountered a small class desk in
      the hallway with a sign:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">HALLOWE'EN SWEETS,<br class="calibre4"/>
      COURTESY OF<br class="calibre4"/>
      HARMLESS HUFFLEPUFFS</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On the desk next to the sign was a tray of orange-and-black
      wrapped sweets. Without paying them much attention, the boy who
      greatly resembled Dean Thomas tossed a few into his robes'
      pockets.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What if he never had it to begin with?" he said,
      eventually.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then why would we have been sent—ah. To get rid of us." The one
      who looked like Seamus frowned. "Let's give it a few more weeks. If
      nothing turns up in that time, we'll... resort to the contingency
      plan."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sounds good," said the one who looked like Dean before eating a
      Sherbet Lemon. "Although last time, we got our—argh!" He doubled
      over, his insides twisting and writhing, his facial features
      moving, as if made from warm wax. The boy who greatly resembled
      Seamus cursed in a most un-childlike manner and pulled him into a
      nearby bathroom, safe from prying eyes. Within a few seconds, a man
      who had once looked like Dean sat, sagged against a cool tile
      wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Amycus?" said the boy who looked like Seamus. "Amycus, are you
      okay? <em class="calibre8">Lumos</em>. Follow my wand." He moved the glowing wand
      tip slowly back and forth in front of his dazed eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amycus Carrow groaned uncomfortably, and looked at his hands.
      They were big and calloused; nothing like the small, dextrous hands
      he'd gotten used to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mandrake root," he spat. "He's on to us; we must—agh!" he tried
      to stand, but he misjudged the length of his suddenly-altered legs
      and tripped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just wait here," said the boy who was increasingly unlikely to
      be Seamus, "until you feel a bit better."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, we need to hide," he protested. "Someone will find us
      here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In <em class="calibre8">this</em> bathroom? Hah! <em class="calibre8">Nobody's</em> coming in
      here." The boy who looked like Seamus hesitated briefly. "So," he
      said finally, "Shall we use the contingency plan?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lucius said—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, <em class="calibre8">Lucius said</em>," the boy who looked like Seamus said
      mockingly. "You think we're doing this because of what <em class="calibre8">Lucius
      said</em>? No, we're here for what happens <em class="calibre8">after</em>. The Dark
      Lord will honour us above Malfoy—above, even, that mad, dead,
      Lestrange witch—when we are successful. Drink your Polyjuice and
      let's move. There's work to do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Notes:</strong> See, I'm not dead! I just have
      writer's block. As an attempted fix, I'm going to publish what I
      <em class="calibre8">do</em> have, i.e., this short chapter you just read, rather
      than sit on it until it's up to the usual length. Hopefully, this
      might bump me out of my current rut.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">D&amp;D Tip:</strong> This one's for all the optimizers
      out there. You won't always be in a party of players with the same
      play style as you, and their opinion can sometimes sour if you
      steal the show with an overpowered character. For some, it's a
      simple matter of making a less powerful character. If that works
      for you, then perfect. But if you're like me, you have a really
      hard time doing that. Optimization is <em class="calibre8">fun</em>. Trawling
      through rulebooks for that golden feat or item is very zen. There
      are two solutions I have discovered to this problem: the first, you
      start a character handicapped, and optimize to your heart's content
      from there. You play a lousy class (*cough*CW Samurai*cough*), or a
      poor class/race combo (half-orc sorc?), or with deliberately poor
      ability score allocation, and then you hit the ground running with
      the best feats, gear, etc. that you can find. That way, it's fun
      for everyone—you get the experience of playing a totally unique
      character that you've never done before (and it might result in
      optimization decisions you'd never have previously considered) and
      you won't generally outstrip the party too much.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The other solution is to play a buffer. Measure your character's
      success not in enemies you defeat, but in those that you help the
      party defeat. Try playing a bard and maximizing Inspire Courage, or
      a Cleric that <em class="calibre8">doesn't</em> use the normal CoDzilla tricks, a
      Marshal, or another support class. You get to optimize to the
      maximum, and your allies get to feel like gods of war. Just be
      careful not to fall into the trap of buffing yourself to turn
      yourself into an undefeatable killing machine. Also make sure you
      get a feel of the party's makeup before you invest too much in one
      buffing method or another. I tried this with a Bard, once, not
      realizing that the rest of the party would be a Psion, a Wizard,
      and a Cleric. I wound up being the only one taking advantage of my
      +5 Inspire Courage and <em class="calibre8">Haste</em>, and, well, overpowered
      everyone else more than ever.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">D&amp;D Tip #2:</strong> <em class="calibre8">Shrink Item</em> +
      <em class="calibre8">Permanency</em> is freaking cool. The possibilities are legion,
      but here's the first that came to mind: you can make your character
      a cloak of water that, on command, floods the room</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  

</body></html>
