<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 45: CC 12: Hallowe'en Masks, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s8" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 12: Hallowe'en Masks</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">"Why do they call you Longbottom, Longbottom?" Miles Bletchley
      sneered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, more like <em class="calibre8">Fatbottom</em>," Flint said mockingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville pressed his back up against the wall, willing himself to
      just sink into it and be gone. Gone from this situation, this
      hallway, this school. No, not gone from Hogwarts. He loved
      Hogwarts. It was just some of the people in it that were the
      problem.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The thick bottom border of the mirror frame stabbed into his
      shoulder blades uncomfortably, but there wasn't much he could do
      about it; half the Slytherin Quidditch team was standing between
      himself and freedom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or, or <em class="calibre8">Dumbottom</em>," Montague said. "Because he's so
      <em class="calibre8">dumb</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The worst part—well, not the <em class="calibre8">worst</em> part, but one of the
      many bad parts—was that their insults weren't even clever. Neville
      would feel much better about himself, on the whole, if he was made
      miserable by clever and biting insults, rather than this rather
      run-of-the-mill fare. But the truth was that it hurt all the same.
      He wished it didn't. He wished he were stronger, like his Gran
      always said. Tougher. Harder. Braver. Smarter. More like Harry
      Potter. Merlin, but she went on about Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But what would Harry Potter do? Duel three wizards, each more
      advanced than he, all at once? He could try it. He might even win;
      after all, he'd been getting better in Lockhart's Club. He knew he
      was. He'd even managed to disarm the vaunted Harry Potter four
      times out of ten. But it wasn't always that easy. It wasn't a
      question of skill, or of size, or even of numbers. The problem was
      in his head, but knowing that just made it worse. The spiral of
      thoughts locked him into immobility. <em class="calibre8">Why are they picking on
      me? Because they know I won't fight back. Why don't I fight back?
      Because I'm scared. Why am I scared? Because I'm weak. Why am I
      weak? Because I'm scared.</em> Rinse and repeat. <em class="calibre8">Weak. Scared.
      Useless. Pathetic. An embarrassment to the family name.</em> The
      insults Neville created for himself were far worse, and hit far
      more squarely, than any that these braindead Slytherins could ever
      have devised.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He didn't want to fight them; he just wanted them to be gone. To
      just <em class="calibre8">go away</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go away?" Flint said incredulously. "You want <em class="calibre8">me</em> to
      '<em class="calibre8">go away</em>?'" he made little air quotes with his fingers
      mockingly. Neville felt lightheaded. He couldn't believe he'd said
      that out loud. "Did you hear that, boys? What do you say—should we
      <em class="calibre8">go away</em>?" Bletchley and Montague just laughed raucously in
      response. Flint drew his wand and held it at Neville's throat. "And
      how are you going to make us?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I—I'll duel you," Neville whispered. <em class="calibre8">Oh Merlin, I'm so
      dead</em>...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry, I couldn't hear that," Flint said. "I couldn't hear
      you, Fatbottom."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I said <em class="calibre8">I'll duel you</em>!" Neville practically screamed.
      "<em class="calibre8">Stupefy</em>! <em class="calibre8">Petrificus Totalus</em>!
      <em class="calibre8">Immobulus</em>!" Neville didn't even have a wand out; he just
      screamed random curses that popped into his head. He knew he was as
      good as dead anyway, so why not?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville was through all of the duelling curses and hexes that he
      knew and was into the minor jinxes when he realized he was still
      alive enough to shout. He opened his eyes. Flint was staring just
      above his head, completely immobile. Cautious in case this was some
      sort of trick, Neville slowly slid down to the ground. Meeting no
      resistance, he crawled between their legs to freedom. Becoming
      convinced that this was not some peculiar ruse, he looked closer at
      his tormentors. Flint, Montague, and Bletchley were all looking
      into the mirror that Neville had been pressed up against. What had
      they seen? He drew his wand—much good it had been earlier—and held
      it up to Flint's face, trying to get it to match the angle of his
      eyes as best he could. With some difficulty, he managed to make it
      stay, wedged between the Slytherin's ear and head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Lumos</em>." A thin ray of light shone out of the tip of
      his wand and was reflected off of the mirror. Curious, Neville
      followed it down the hall, where it rebounded off of a polished
      statue, followed by a brass candlestick, around the corner to an
      iron windowframe, and, finally, coming to an end in the middle of a
      completely empty hallway in front of a statue of a lost-looking
      wizard titled 'Boris the Bewildered.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're not the only one, mate," Neville muttered, then returned
      to reclaim his wand. <em class="calibre8">Best tell Dumbledore or McGonagall</em>,
      he thought. Just as he turned to leave, a new thought struck
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">But first</em>... he grinned, drawing his wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, what are you going to dress up as for the feast this
      evening?" Hannah asked Milo as they walked past the lake, her
      breath visible in the chill October air. Around the lake, other
      students were enjoying the clear (by the standards of Scottish
      autumn) weather. Cedric and some other Hufflepuffs were tossing a
      Quaffle around, Lavender Brown and the Patil twins were chatting
      with a group of other NPCs about something unimportant, and some
      upper-year Ravenclaws were already cramming for their NEWTs,
      despite the exams being most of a year away. Ravenclaws could be
      like that sometimes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Haven't given it a moment's thought, to be honest," Milo
      admitted. "I've been too busy worrying about what might happen
      today."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean like when the Troll escaped last year?" Hannah
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Exactly like that. Hallowe'en's too significant for too many
      reasons for today to go smoothly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah shrugged. "I'd say we'll be ready for whatever happens,
      if anything does. Between the Duelling Club and your Hellipedes,
      I've never been more confident about my magic. I mean, watch this.
      Look at that fish for a second." She pointed at a pike swimming
      near the surface of the dark lake. "<em class="calibre8">Stupefy</em>!" There was a
      red flash, and the pike froze, floating to the surface. "See? I've
      been practicing. We all have."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No kidding." Milo was impressed; he hadn't even seen her draw
      her wand. "Oh, this reminds me. Here, I've got something for you."
      Milo rooted about in his extradimensional belt, then pulled out a
      standard Hogwarts robe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm guessing it's not just an extra change of clothes?" Hannah
      said, looking at it curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's magically enhanced," Milo explained. "Roughly as tough as
      steel. Should keep you safe from claws, fangs, and pointy
      sticks—oh, and Redcaps, in case we see one of those guys again—but
      it won't do anything against magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That would explain why I saw Ron and Harry wailing at each
      other with Beaters' bats, and laughing, then," Hannah said, taking
      the robes. "I was wondering about that." She frowned. "I, er,
      appreciate the present, but these are a size small."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't worry," Milo said. "They resize to the wearer. You could
      be bigger than Hagrid and they'd still fit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah grinned. "You should have said that first, then! With any
      luck, <em class="calibre8">that</em> will be the more useful part. I'll never have
      to go to Madam Malkin's again!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just make sure you wear them—and the amulet—pretty much all of
      the time. The amulet especially."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course; I haven't taken it off since you gave it to me. I
      remember last Christmas, too." Hannah frowned. "This is going
      beyond your usual paranoia. What's going on?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The fact is, I don't know," Milo admitted. "And that scares me.
      There are people looking for something, but I don't have a
      <em class="calibre8">single</em> clue about what they're looking for. Why do they
      want it? What is it? What will happen if they find it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Could it be the Philosopher's Stone, again?" Hannah
      suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Possibly," Milo said. He was surprised he hadn't considered
      that. "I'm pretty sure Dumbledore moved it after last year, though.
      I'd always assumed it was this adventure's MacGuffin, but I suppose
      it could be the MacGuffin of the whole campaign."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Elaine MacGuffin? The fourth-year Hufflepuff girl?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nah, the magic-artifact-thingy that everybody wants. The origin
      of its name is lost in the depths of time. Frankly, I'd assumed it
      was Harry. You know,
      something-something-key-to-defeating-the-Dark-Lord or whatever.
      Although Dumbledore <em class="calibre8">did</em> say it had more to do with Harry's
      mother..." Milo frowned. He felt as if he might be on to something,
      but he'd need more time to work it out. "On top of all that,
      there's this whole Chamber of Secrets thing with Peeves. Annoying
      as he is, why an ancient monster would sneak out of hiding to take
      out an NPC who was clearly intended as comic relief is beyond
      me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you probably want to find a way to get home, right?" Hannah
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, yeah, eventually," Milo said vaguely. He hadn't actually
      thought about home in quite some time. "But I'm sure they can live
      without me for a while yet. I think I'm needed here more."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah grinned. "You, sir, are correct. Whatever would we do if
      we didn't have you to overcomplicate things for us?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure you'd find something to do to fill up the time," Milo
      said. "Quidditch or infighting or whatnot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Across the lake, a huffing, puffing Hufflepuff Milo didn't
      recognize ran up to the Quidditch players. Whatever he said, it
      surprised Cedric enough that—for the first time Milo had seen—he
      fumbled the Quaffle when it was passed to him. A few seconds later,
      they were running into the castle, followed shortly by Lavender,
      the Patils, and the others.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah frowned. "Maybe we should check out what's going on?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even a few Ravenclaws pulled themselves away from their studies
      to follow the crowd.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Milo said. "Definitely."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They followed the growing throng of students, pushing against
      each other to be the first to reach their intended goal—whatever it
      was. Over the din, Milo managed to snatch the occasional glimpse of
      what sounded like relevant information.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"... entire hallway disappeared..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"... almost the entire Slytherin team..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"... with me..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"... ears to cumquats..." Milo frowned. He must have failed a
      Listen check on that one. At some point in the push, he lost track
      of Hannah. As the movement was starting to slow and the bodies were
      packed even more tightly together, someone grabbed Milo's arm
      roughly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I said, <em class="calibre8">come with me</em>!" It was Ron. Surprised, Milo let
      his feet carry him away from the crowd and the noise, down a side
      corridor to the main staircase. Around the corner, Harry and
      Hermione were waiting impatiently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's going on?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you finally got him, then?" Harry asked irritably, ignoring
      his question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There were a lot of people," Ron said defensively. "It was hard
      to pick him out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's happening?" Milo asked again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's Dean and Seamus," Hermione said. "Ron heard them say they
      were going to... kill somebody. We thought we'd best grab you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fair enough," Milo shrugged. "Lead on." Without another word,
      they hustled to the entrance to Gryffindor tower.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Password?" the fat lady asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Friendly Melons," Milo replied, and she swung open. Milo
      glanced back at his friends. "Wands out, people."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Inside, things looked fairly normal. The Weasley twins were
      playing wizard chess near the window, Neville was reading the
      Potions textbook on an armchair, and Dean and Seamus were chatting
      conspiratorially in the corner.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, dirtbags!" Milo shouted at the two. "Hope you enjoy a face
      full of <em class="calibre8">Glitterd</em>—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Incarcerous</em>," Fred cast, and Milo's arms were suddenly
      tied behind his back with ropes, ruining the spell. More ropes tied
      his legs together at the ankles.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What the hell, Fred?" Milo asked angrily. "Yo! Gryffindors!
      Dean and Seamus over there are like, seriously bad news!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are we?" Dean asked, standing up. "Are we, really? And why is
      that, little boy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, there's all the skulking about, the fact that Ron here
      overheard you plotting murder, and the 'little boy' you just threw
      out there didn't help your case any, either."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's got a point, Dean," Seamus said. "We <em class="calibre8">do</em> sound
      like—what was it? Ah, yes. '<em class="calibre8">Seriously bad news</em>.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, he has no <em class="calibre8">idea</em> how bad, Seamus," Dean said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're right, <em class="calibre8">Dean</em>. Why don't we show him?" Seamus
      walked up to Milo, and stared him in the eye. Then, without
      warning, his fist caught Milo in the jaw, knocking him to the
      ground awkwardly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey! Hermione, kick their asses!" Milo said, spitting blood on
      the red-and-gold carpet. Why wasn't anyone doing anything? "Harry?
      Ron?" But nobody moved.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I've wanted to do that for <em class="calibre8">months</em>, little
      <em class="calibre8">boy</em>," Seamus muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Listen to him calling for help, Seamus," Dean said. "He thinks
      he's surrounded by <em class="calibre8">friends</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Oh,</em> crap.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo's mind raced, but it didn't take him long to guess what
      happened. <em class="calibre8">Of course</em>. Whatever it was that happened
      downstairs had been a big enough distraction to draw everyone from
      the Common Room down to take a look. There had certainly been
      enough people that Milo would believe every single Hogwarts student
      was down there. So, everyone currently in the room with him was
      some sort of plant. Now, the question remained: were they his
      actual friends, controlled by the Imperius Curse, or were they
      someone else using a Polyjuice potion?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo felt his lips twitch up into a smile, despite everything.
      "Well," he said. "Crap. Looks like you've got me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed," not-Seamus said. "Now, tell me, where have you hidden
      the book?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Great. Another one of</em> these <em class="calibre8">conversations</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Somewhere safe," Milo said vaguely. He had no idea what book
      they were talking about. "I'm willing to make a deal, but first,
      you must answer one question."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Acceptable. Ask your question; but be warned: if we even
      <em class="calibre8">think</em> you are casting a spell, you will be dead before you
      hit the floor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I understand. Now, my friends—the people you're disguised
      as—are they safe?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good." So they were disguise as, rather than possessing, his
      friends. He could use Divinations to track them down later. In
      fact, with the exception of Dean and Seamus, it was more than
      likely that they were all in the castle, completely oblivious to
      the events in the Common Room. These people, whoever they were,
      could simply have pulled a hair from their marks' robes or pillows
      at their leisure to use for a Polyjuice potion. Not only was that
      what Milo would have done, it's what he <em class="calibre8">had</em> done; he'd
      already owled to Cog small paper packets with hairs taken from, at
      most recent count, one-third of the Hogwarts student body. "The
      wall behind me is an Illusion," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The funny thing about Illusions is that, once you know they're
      not real, they turn transparent. The most obvious use of this trick
      is to create a one-way window from which to spy or snipe, but, in
      Milo's opinion, that was far from the only one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Anyone who heard his declaration would notice, if they were
      paying very close attention, the south wall of the Gryffindor
      Common Room move almost a tenth of a millimetre as the <em class="calibre8">Illusory
      Wall</em> flickered away. And even if they weren't paying
      attention, they'd notice the massive, garish, magenta-and-cyan
      glow-in-the-dark text that was suddenly visible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">THE CHAMBER OF MUNCHKINRY HAS BEEN OPENED.<br class="calibre4"/>
      ENEMIES OF ABSURDLY OVERPOWERED ARCANE MAGIC, BEWARE.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Post Scriptum: this text is exactly twenty five words long,
      thanks.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wh—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A small viper, sepia-toned like an old photograph, leapt out of
      the wall from a discreet sigil concealed in the final period of the
      message. It flew towards not-Seamus like a bullet before vanishing
      in a puff of dun smoke in front of his startled eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the smoke cleared, a shimmering amber field became visible,
      surrounding the immobile not-Seamus. Unless somehow dispelled, he
      would remain trapped there, in stasis, for about a week and a
      half.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Merlin's beard!" not-Hermione cursed, staring at the frozen
      not-Seamus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Avada</em>—" not-Neville began casting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, you fool!" not-Dean shouted. "We need him alive!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Good to know</em>, Milo noted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But he used magic!" not-Neville protested. "He could kill us
      all!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Idiot! That was clearly a premade trap—if he could do it to all
      of us, he would have. Use your mind! He's powerless."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo had to make a formidable Bluff check to bite down laughter.
      Whoever thought that a Wizard was powerless simply because he was
      surrounded by enemies, alone, unarmed, and tied down in the middle
      of a room had Bad Things coming in their near future. Not that a
      Wizard who could speak was ever <em class="calibre8">really</em> unarmed, of
      course.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, this book," Milo said, "I don't suppose you could describe
      it for me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't get cute with me, boy," not-Dean snapped. "You know very
      well what book I'm talking about."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're <em class="calibre8">absolutely certain</em> of that?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Obviously. Stop stalling for time. You have thirty
      seconds."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo frowned. Maybe he <em class="calibre8">did</em> have this book they wanted.
      There was only one book he carried around of any magical
      significance, and that was his spellbook. Maybe they thought they
      could learn Arcane magic from it?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It won't work for you," Milo said seriously. "It'd be as useful
      as a notebook full of scribbles."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll be the judge of that," not-Dean said. "Just hand it over
      before things get... unpleasant."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Right, because being sprawled on the floor with my hands
      tied up isn't unpleasant at</em> all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It will <em class="calibre8">only work for me</em>," Milo repeated. "It's
      <em class="calibre8">mine</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not-Dean's eyes widened. "You don't mean that
      <em class="calibre8">you</em>..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes! Yes I do!" Milo wasn't quite sure <em class="calibre8">what</em> not-Dean
      was getting at, but he seemed to be making progress here. Any
      attempt to use his spellbook was a fool's errand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then you'd best come with us," not-Dean said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo laughed. "I'm not going <em class="calibre8">anywhere</em> with you." This
      conversation was getting weird, fast.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then I'm sure you'll understand my predicament. If you don't
      back up your claim by either producing the book or coming with us,
      I'll use more direct methods to determine the truth, and I don't
      think either of us want it to come to that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What claim? What the Hells was going on?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Torture won't help you," Milo said, frantically trying to think
      of a plan. "Because I'm not Milo. I'm really, uh, that guy." He
      nodded at not-Neville completely at random.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who, Avery?" not-Dean asked. "What nonsense is this?" not-Dean
      aimed his wand steadily at Milo. "I'm done with this. You'll tell
      us the truth, <em class="calibre8">now</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah! Avery! We switched by some kind of—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Crucio</em>," not-Dean cast.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Translocation Trick</em>." Milo muttered. In a rather
      disorienting manner, he suddenly found himself looking like Neville
      and staring at, well, <em class="calibre8">himself</em> from the other side of the
      room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait! Stop!" the unfortunate person (Avery?) disguised as
      Neville disguised as Milo gasped between tortured screams. "I'm
      really Avery! <em class="calibre8">Avery</em>!" Milo tried to think back to where
      he'd heard that name before.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's lying," Milo said. "I'm Avery!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Where is the book</em>?" not-Dean shouted at the writhing
      Avery.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How the hell should I know?" Avery shrieked back. "I'm one of
      you!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is the <em class="calibre8">least</em> believable lie I've <em class="calibre8">ever</em>
      heard!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shifted uncomfortably as Avery writhed on the floor,
      straining against the ropes that tied him down. Killing orcs was
      one thing, but this was... wrong. Torture was <em class="calibre8">explicitly</em>
      stated to be an Evil act in the rules, and Milo felt it was a
      flimsy defence to say that he wasn't the one doing the torture; he
      had simply arranged events such that someone else would be tortured
      while he waited, doing nothing. The fact that the victim looked
      exactly like him didn't help matters any.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ready an action, Mordy," Milo whispered to his Familiar. "We'll
      take them next turn."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The <em class="calibre8">Translocation Trick</em> hid Milo's extradimensional
      belt, so anyone looking closely would see Mordy's head and arms pop
      out of seemingly-nowhere.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">3...2...1...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Shatter</em>." Not-Dean's wand exploded with a thunderclap,
      saving Avery from his torment. Briefly. Mordy, using bracers
      enchanted with <em class="calibre8">Launch Item</em>, fired a marked knut into the
      centre of the room. The rat squinted, using his goggles-enhanced
      Spot check to read the tiny rune at a distance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The coin exploded in a purple-green burst, taking most of the
      room with it. The windows shattered outwards, and most of the
      furniture was reduced to splinters. People disguised as most of his
      best friends were sent flying across the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mercy!" the one disguised as Harry Potter gasped, cradling a
      clearly broken arm. "Master, have mercy!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Death Eaters—Milo remembered where he'd heard the name 'Avery'
      before—were sprawled around the room, battered and broken. But
      alive. Another volley from Mordy would change that. He
      <em class="calibre8">knew</em> that it was the right decision. If they lived, they'd
      go on, serving Malfoy and Voldemort, until they were thrown in
      Azkaban or killed. It was the smart choice. Milo looked at the
      Death Eater disguised as Ron, whimpering on the floor. He looked at
      the Death Eater disguised as Hermione, whose face was covered in
      blood. He looked at the Death Eater disguised as Harry, begging for
      mercy at Milo's feet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked at himself—Avery—on the floor, unconscious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Everybody leave," Milo said quietly. "Just go. If I see any of
      you again, I'll probably kill you." Of course, they were in
      disguise, highlighting the absurdity of his threat. He didn't know
      who most of them were, but at this point, he didn't really
      care.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">A—Accio Broomsticks</em>," the Death Eater who looked like
      Harry said, and a tightly wrapped bundle of brooms flew in through
      the window a few seconds later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It took some doing to get them all on brooms, but a few minutes
      later, they were gone, and Milo was left in a room with his rat, an
      amber-trapped Death Eater, and pile of broken furniture.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius Malfoy sealed the envelope to the Hogwarts board of
      directors before tying to an owl's waiting leg. All in all, he'd
      call the day a victory. Sure, his Death Eaters had been bloodied
      and defeated (and, more importantly, had failed in their mission).
      But really, he'd expected that. Their mission had served its
      purpose; it had distracted them from his lack of desire to bring
      the Dark Lord back and given them a new motive: revenge. They were
      mad enough about their humiliating defeat that they would question
      no orders that sent them up against that unnatural little child.
      And, now that they had returned home, he could stop blackmailing
      potion makers across Britain into making him Polyjuice. Of course,
      there was still the matter of what to do with the captured
      students, but Lucius was certain that, if they were found, he was
      removed enough from the situation that it wouldn't affect him in
      any real way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But it was the surprising attack on Slytherin's Quidditch team
      that had been the real highlight of the day. Rich, pureblooded
      families across the country were crying for blood, and Lucius knew
      exactly how and where to channel that anger and fear. There were a
      not insignificant number of halfbloods and mudbloods, even those
      who were usually Lucius's enemies, who were joining the mob.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Power came from seizing opportunities when you found them, not
      from stubbornly sticking to outdated plans and causes, and this was
      an opportunity too good for Lucius to pass up. Come tomorrow
      morning, he would not trade places with Dumbledore for all the gold
      in Gringotts. Well, maybe he would. With that much gold, he could
      bribe his way out of any problem. But the sentiment still
      stood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius pulled out another sheet of parchment, this one intended
      for the <em class="calibre8">Daily Prophet</em>, and began writing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">As a concerned father and respected community leader, I am
      outraged at the flagrant disregard for student safety exhibited by
      Hogwarts's current administration...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was almost too easy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Notes:</strong> I'm switching the update days
      to Fridays to better match my new schedule. If I don't find that
      that works, I might push it to Saturday or Sunday instead. Also,
      I've decided that the previous chapter's name ("Hallwe'en Masks")
      fits this chapter much better. So I've renamed Chapter 11 to "Trick
      or Treat" (which is a better name anyway, considering the events of
      the previous chapter) and I'm naming Chapter 12 "Hallowe'en Masks."
      Sorry for the confusion, as this is one of the problems in writing
      in a serial format: it can be awkward to go back and change things
      when you have a better idea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">D&amp;D Tip:</strong> Though this one works equally well
      for pretty much any RPG. If you're doing one of those Showdown At
      High Noon-style walk ten paces, turn, and fire duels (or a
      quick-draw Single Stroke Battle), here's what you do for optimum
      coolness around the table: have one player count down, and at one,
      both contestants simultaneously roll attack, and initiative, and do
      all the addition of bonuses, etc., before declaring what happened.
      Then you roll damage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This highlights the sudden, tense nature of the duel around the
      table in a satisfying way, while still following the rules to the
      letter.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
