<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 36: CC 3: Too Quiet, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s33" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 3: Too Quiet</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Notes:</strong> <em class="calibre8">I'm on TV Tropes!</em>
      Everything I've ever wanted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Today's Character Sheet:</strong> myth-weavers
      com/sheetview php?sheetid=553596</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, anything interesting happen over the summer?" Hermione
      asked curiously. "I mostly just read—I read <em class="calibre8">Gadding with
      Ghouls</em>, <em class="calibre8">Break with a Banshee</em>, and <em class="calibre8">Travels with
      Trolls</em> four times and <em class="calibre8">Year with the Yeti</em> five, but I
      only had enough time to read <em class="calibre8">Voyages with Vampires</em> twice!
      Hopefully I can get in another round of each before September."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Vampires, eh?</em> Milo thought to himself, wondering
      whatever happened to Quirrell's—no, <em class="calibre8">Voldemort's</em>—vampires
      from the year before. As far as he knew, they were still out in the
      Forbidden Forest, lurking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The four of them—Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Milo—were waiting
      outside Madam Malkin's while Ginny got her school uniform. It was
      the first time they'd seen Hermione since June.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope," Milo said quickly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, nothing?" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing at all," Ron added, avoiding eye contact. "We were
      well-behaved."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that's a relief—since you've done your readings, maybe
      this year you can do your <em class="calibre8">own</em> homework." Hermione paused.
      "You <em class="calibre8">have</em> done the readings, haven't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look over there!" Ron gasped. "It's the Grim!" In truth, they
      didn't even have their textbooks yet. Acquiring them was one of the
      objectives of their current sidequest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry, where?" Hermione turned around, surprised, to where Ron
      was pointing. However, instead of a pernicious prognostication,
      there was merely Ollivander's—<em class="calibre8">or Ollivanders'?</em>—wand shop,
      which, in Milo's mind, was only marginally better.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Must have been my imagination," Ron said quickly. "Shall we,
      er, go see Quality Quidditch Supplies? Oh, but you two don't like
      broomsticks. Have fun doing—er—thing!" Grabbing the surprised Harry
      Potter by his shirtsleeve, Ron practically bolted away through the
      crowded alley, dragging the bemused Boy-Who-Lived behind him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What was that all about?" Hermione asked suspiciously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No idea," Milo lied, cursing his friends for abandoning him.
      He'd have to rely on his Bluff skill. <em class="calibre8">Come on, nat twenty,
      don't fail me now...</em> "Because he certainly <em class="calibre8">wasn't</em>
      fleeing to avoid telling you about a disaster—which, and I can't
      stress this enough—certainly <em class="calibre8">didn't</em> happen in late
      July."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stared at him for a second or two, her expression
      unreadable. "I see." <em class="calibre8">She totally bought it! You've still got
      it, Milo</em>. "Because I thought he was making a runner because he
      hadn't <em class="calibre8">actually</em> done any advance reading and didn't want
      to fess up about it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, yes, that's <em class="calibre8">much</em> more believable. Let's go with
      that. Which reminds me: I should probably go get this year's
      reading list. And I need to send a letter. Want to come with?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, seeing as how the others have fled my presence, I don't
      see any particular reason why not. What letter?" Hermione asked
      curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My Amulets of Protection from Evil—now that I can make them
      cheaply, I'm planning to offer them to Ministry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's a really good idea," Hermione approved. "From what I've
      read, one of the largest problems they had there in the last war
      was being unable to determine who was under the effects of the
      Imperius curse, or, even if they could, to counter it. They're
      <em class="calibre8">still</em> trying to sort out who may have been
      compromised."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Exactly. That, and the fact that I can charge whatever I want
      for them." If the Ministry was interested, he could finally pay
      Harry back for the small fortune he borrowed from him last year.
      Material costs aside, he still had to pay the XP cost, meaning he
      couldn't just give them away—even if he had the time to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can go to the Owl Post Office, and by the time we're done,
      likely Harry and Ron will have forgotten why they ran off in the
      first place," Hermione suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Owl Post Office, as it turned out, was exactly what it
      sounds like. Owls—Milo <em class="calibre8">still</em> couldn't understand why these
      wizards relied on <em class="calibre8">owls</em> for post, especially when there
      were not one but <em class="calibre8">two</em> forms of teleportation (Apparating
      and Floo powder) available—fluttered in and out through the largely
      open roof to the floor, where frantic postal workers tied fresh
      parchment to their legs and beleaguered janitors used magic and
      enchanted mops in a futile attempt to keep the room clean. And that
      wasn't even getting to the <em class="calibre8">noise</em>. The screech of owls and
      massed flutter of wings was nearly deafening.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Morgana's ghost!" Hermione gasped. "It smells like a dung bomb
      went off in here!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo, choking, wrapped a black silk filter mask from his belt
      around his face, covering it from the eyes down. While he doubted
      the smell was poor enough to force him to make a Fortitude save, he
      wasn't taking any chances.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do the employees tolerate it?" Milo asked. Unfortunately,
      his newfound appreciation for taste had the side-effect of
      drastically increasing his perception of non-plot-relevant scents.
      In addition to being a minor hindrance to his plot sense, it could
      also be extremely annoying.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bubble-Head Charm?" she suggested. "Although you'd think that
      long-term reliance on a small volume of recycled air would weaken
      the immune system..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think they get enough contact with unsanitary material
      through other means to make up for that," Milo pointed out.
      After... <em class="calibre8">certain events</em> last year, he'd decided to spend
      some time over the summer researching basic medical theory in this
      world—enough that there wouldn't, hopefully, be a repeat of last
      Christmas but not enough that he was forced to invest skill ranks
      cross-class in Heal. "I'd be more worried about what happens to
      wizards and witches with bad breath."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An obviously-stressed young wizard was sitting behind the
      counter. His fingernails had all been chewed to the quick, his hair
      was in disarray, his lips were cracked and his eyes were a
      bloodshot red—the latter two likely a result of his face being
      continuously surrounded in dry air for eight hours every day. The
      source of his problems was evident, as there were
      scratch-and-peck-marks up and down both arms, layered over scars of
      earlier ones.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are we being robbed? Oh Merlin, we're being robbed!" the
      post-wizard exclaimed, taking note of Milo's masked face before
      bolting into a back room, followed by a muffled
      "<em class="calibre8">Colloportus!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er..." Hermione said. "Is there someone <em class="calibre8">else</em> we can
      talk to?" she asked the room. Eventually, a post-witch showed up,
      gave them a lecture about scaring their elders, took Milo's letter
      (and silver) and shooed them out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that was decidedly odd," Hermione murmured as they
      left.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Agreed," Milo said. "Let us never speak of this place
      again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They found Harry and Ron leaving whatever the broomstick shop
      was called—Milo honestly couldn't care less—and they headed to the
      bookstore. Milo noticed that Ron and Harry conspicuously kept him
      between them and Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The bookstore, as it turned out, was largely empty. Books lined
      the tall, narrow shelves (in Milo's experience, you could always
      tell the quality of a bookstore by how cramped the aisles were. By
      that metric, this one was pure mithril), although most of the
      textbooks, the store's major draw in August, were already gone. A
      few posters hung from the walls, each depicting the same handsome
      man's smiling face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who's he?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gilderoy Lockhart," Ron shrugged. "He's supposed to be this
      big, famous dark wizard hunter, but his book on dealing with
      household pests is pretty rubbish."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's probably because he's too busy fighting werewolves and
      vampires to brush up on his dealings with doxies and pixies,"
      Hermione said defensively, browsing through a stack of Miranda
      Goshawk's <em class="calibre8">The Standard Book of Spells, Grade Two</em> . "Which
      would be obvious if any of you had actually read your
      textbooks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hold up," Ron said. "How did <em class="calibre8">you</em> get a hold of them so
      early? This is the first time you've been to Diagon Alley all
      summer, right? Or you'd have your other supplies, too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You <em class="calibre8">have</em> heard about owl order, haven't you?" she
      said, although she turned slightly pink.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then how come you didn't get the <em class="calibre8">Book of Spells</em>, too?"
      Harry asked innocently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione muttered something about a "standing pre-order," shot
      them an acid look, and went to the counter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, this Gorilla Lockout guy," Milo said thoughtfully. "He's a
      dark wizard-hunter-type?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pretty much," Ron said. "But if you ask me, he's just famous
      because the witches, and not a few wizards, all fancy him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And he wrote our entire booklist?" Milo pressed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Looks like—except for the one by Goshawk," Harry said, scanning
      over his letter from Hogwarts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">And</em> he was mentioned earlier this adventure?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er..." Harry said, giving Milo the usual look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dammit," Milo muttered. "Another DADA professor. Now, the
      question remains—will he prove to be secretly treacherous, like
      Quirrell, or will he break the expectation created by the
      precedence of the <em class="calibre8">last</em> professor to be, in fact, secretly
      <em class="calibre8">good</em> despite our suspicions?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Your</em> suspicions, mate," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The poster says he was going to be here yesterday doing a book
      signing," Ron said. "We would have met him if we hadn't been...
      delayed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The important thing is we were let off with a warning," Harry
      said, "and we can put that entire ordeal behind us.
      <em class="calibre8">Permanently</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What ordeal?" Hermione asked, returning with her
      newly-purchased textbook.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ordeal? What ordeal?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He meant to say <em class="calibre8">ore deal</em>," Milo lied. "We're
      discussing the acquisition of certain metals of arcane significance
      for my... magicking." Milo sighed inwardly—you get what you pay
      for, and he hadn't invested any ranks in Bluff.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Hermione said skeptically. "Are you three just going to
      stand around talking, or will you actually get the books you came
      here for?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo and Ron coughed and discreetly stepped towards the 'used'
      section. Milo had been sent a sum of money from Hogwarts' Destitute
      Orphans' Fund this summer that was so modest it was practically
      bashful. Even used, there was no way he would be able to cover the
      extensive Lockhart booklist without dipping into the money Harry
      had lent him for spell research and item crafting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What say you we go half-half," Milo suggested quietly to Ron,
      "then put the Pen of Plagiarism +5 to work?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Won't work," Ron said, "all Flourish and Blotts' books are
      protected against Copying Cha..." Ron drifted off as the penny
      dropped. Milo's magic would, likely, be able to bypass that
      protection—although the results could sometimes be unpredictable
      when the two types of magic interacted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron simply grinned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, well, well," an unfortunately familiar voice drawled. "If
      it isn't three jailbirds and their pet mole—oh wait, is that
      <em class="calibre8">Granger</em> behind those horrid teeth?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Malfoy," Harry said through clenched teeth. Draco Malfoy stood
      leaning against a shelf near the entrance. None of them had seen
      him enter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm surprised you'd dare show your faces in public," the blond
      Slytherin boy continued. "I hear Weasley's father had to use his
      last remaining favour in the Ministry to get you three off the
      hook—and himself, for that matter. What was it he said? That that
      car was simply for experimenting, and not for using? Rather slim
      excuse, if you ask me, but it <em class="calibre8">pales</em> in comparison to what
      <em class="calibre8">you</em> did. Tell me, where there many rats in the Muggle
      prison? Aside from you and your... pets."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Frankly, I thought you'd learned your lesson last time," Harry
      said, "as I believe Milo here knocked your teeth in."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Check your facts, <em class="calibre8">Potter</em>," Malfoy sneered. "I only
      lost <em class="calibre8">one</em> tooth! And don't think you won't pay for that—and
      what you did to my house."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A mistake I'm all too ready to remedy," Milo said, putting down
      <em class="calibre8">Gadding with Ghouls</em> in case he needed his hands for a
      fight. "And that time, you had the Crabbegoyles with you. Now, the
      numbers are somewhat stacked against you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wouldn't sully these pureblood fists with your face, freak,
      even if I was here to fight," Malfoy said contemptuously. "I was
      simply <em class="calibre8">so</em> surprised to see your faces in public after your
      little <em class="calibre8">ordeal</em> that curiosity simply required me to
      determine that it <em class="calibre8">was</em> you, and not some illusion or
      charm—though I needn't have worried. <em class="calibre8">Charm</em> is not
      something any of you has in abundance."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ooh, a Slytherin with a sharp wit," Ron said with feigned awe.
      "Someone take it away before he cuts himself with it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy gave Ron a look as if he were something sticky he scraped
      off the bottom of his shoe, and turned to leave. Not being one to
      allow anyone else to have the last word, he spun around
      dramatically before leaving the store. "I'll be seeing you at
      Hogwarts, I presume—though when you discover what's going to happen
      this year, perhaps you'll wish you'd stayed home with your mothers.
      Except you, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco slammed the door shut behind him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anyone want to bet that he doesn't yet have a plan and he's,
      right this second, frantically trying to come up with one to match
      his boast?" Harry said after a second.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I feel like I'll regret this, but... you're on," Ron said.
      "Wonder how he found out about—" Ron froze, and turned to stare at
      Hermione in horror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You were <em class="calibre8">arrested?</em> By the <em class="calibre8">police?</em> The
      <em class="calibre8">Muggle police?</em>" Hermione gasped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Milo thought I was in danger," Harry explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He had bloody convincing reasoning, too," Ron added. "A very
      solid argument. I'm not sure what it was, mind; you'll have to ask
      him yourself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what reason... never mind. Obviously the dastardly threat
      to Harry was Milo's impending rescue," Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think there's something funny with your logic there," Milo
      said, as he tried to imagine whether it was possible that he could
      have dropped out of a timeskip due to <em class="calibre8">himself</em> being the
      threat, in which case he had only dropped out of the timeskip
      because of what he was about to do after dropping out of the
      timeskip, which would make for some kind of self-fulfilling, loopy
      causality. Even thinking about it was beginning to give him a
      headache, and so he let it rest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now <em class="calibre8">my</em> logic is funny?" Hermione remarked wryly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To be fair," interjected Harry, grinning, "Being jailed by the
      Muggles was a lot more fun than being jailed by the Dursleys. I'd
      say it was a pretty top-notch rescue."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What remained of the summer holidays flew past at the rate of
      just a few scant words of description per week, with Harry and the
      Weasleys (which sounded to Milo like a pretty good name for a
      Bardic troupe) spending most of their time playing Quidditch—a game
      which, while he approved of it from the dramatic standpoint of
      making only the PCs and their actions matter, Milo disdained
      because it involved physical exertion and the ability to ride
      broomsticks—while Milo tried to keep a low profile. His recent
      glimpses of the Muggle world had shaken him to a degree that
      surprised him. They seemed to be able to accomplish the impossible
      without magic—like cars, for instance. Milo could think of a few
      means of moving a wheeled vehicle without animal power: the wheels
      or the whole vehicle could be animated, it could be sail-powered
      with a permanent <em class="calibre8">Gust of Wind</em>, it could be a tiny, mobile
      stronghold, or, most cost-effectively, it could be moved by
      controllable poltergeist spirits via <em class="calibre8">Animate Dead</em> and
      <em class="calibre8">Hauntshift</em>. However, all of Milo's plans were either
      prohibitively expensive in terms of gold, XP, or morals—and, of
      course, required magic. The more Milo thought about it, magic was
      really the limiting factor. Magic, save for some trickery relying
      on extreme Munchkinry, came hand-in-hand with exponential—and
      fixed—time, gold, and XP costs. Mundane crafting had none of these
      concerns, with the time being largely based on the creator's skill,
      tools, and assistants and the cost fluctuating with circumstance
      and quality. From what he'd seen, the Muggles here nearly
      <em class="calibre8">all</em> had cars. It boggled the mind. An ordinary peasant
      from Myra (City of Light! City of <em class="calibre8">Magic</em>!) would have to
      spend nearly three years' wages to buy a good horse and wagon, and
      all of Milo's proposed self-propelled machines would cost hundreds
      of times more—except possibly for the last, depending on the
      availability of relatively intact, low-HD corpses.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd owled Hermione, who had gone back to live with her parents
      until September, to ask how the Muggles managed to make so much
      <em class="calibre8">stuff</em>. She'd asked her mother, and sent back what amounted
      to a short essay detailing mining, machinery, smelting, and, the
      production line. Milo had scoffed at the idea of 1st level
      non-caster NPCs working together to create goods <em class="calibre8">en
      masse</em>—until he did the math. Ninety-nine unskilled Commoners,
      and one with 4 ranks and Skill Focus in the proper Craft skill,
      with <em class="calibre8">one</em> set of Masterwork Tools, all using Aid Another
      (which would give each a 50% chance to add +2) would have a
      colossal +108 Craft bonus. Using Quick Crafting, higher bonuses
      would lead to exponential returns. This group could make around
      thirteen <em class="calibre8">thousand</em> silver pieces worth of goods in a
      week—compared to the seven silver piece weekly wage they could
      expect working alone. With other bonuses, such as those from feats,
      better tools, or a decent Intelligence bonus, that number would
      increase dramatically. Sure, a Wizard could simply cast
      <em class="calibre8">Fabricate</em> and turn any raw material into any finished
      product, but <em class="calibre8">Fabricate</em> required a 9th-level Wizard, and
      how many thousands of level one Commoners were there per 9th-level
      Wizard?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That led Milo down another track. A horrifying track. It came to
      him when he tried to explain the differences between the Muggles
      here and those in Myra (City of Light! City of <em class="calibre8">Magic</em>!). He
      didn't know anything about the state of Muggles outside of
      England—or, to be honest, outside of Little Whinging—so
      generalizations were risky. But, even assuming that England was the
      wealthiest, most powerful empire on this plane, when compared to
      the Azel Empire, of which Myra (City of Light! City of
      <em class="calibre8">Magic</em>!) was capital, there were horrifying conclusions.
      Azel was one of the wealthiest human empires from his world.
      Nevertheless, its average citizens—the NPC commoners—lived in a
      near-perpetual state of poverty and fear. They had to rely on the
      happenstance of a passing party of adventurers for protection, and
      could hardly afford food, much less shelter, as a simple one-room
      wooden cottage went for 1,000gp (10,000 days' wage) anywhere in the
      realm. Most people lived in lean-tos built out of quarterstaffs and
      clubs, thatched with holly and mistletoe, and the other few free
      items in the book. Their only options for escape were to become
      another random encounter—that is, banditry—or adventuring. Both
      options offered the chance at a fortune, but came at the cost of
      having a <em class="calibre8">terrible</em> retirement plan (the business end of a
      passing Paladin's longsword or a Red Dragon's stomach,
      respectively). But the Muggles here, in England, <em class="calibre8">had</em> food,
      safety, and homes. They had a competent city watch. It was then
      that Milo realized the reason for it: magic. The wizards here kept
      their magic a secret for reasons that seemed entirely selfish: the
      Muggles would never stop bothering them, because they would want
      magical solutions to all of their problems. In Milo's world, magic
      was no secret. It was available, it was open. There was a magical
      solution to any problem—for a price. There was no need to develop a
      superior plow when you could hire a Druid to cast <em class="calibre8">Plant
      Growth</em>. The reason was clear, and it would keep Milo awake at
      night: <em class="calibre8">magic throttled innovation</em>. In History of Magic,
      Milo had learned that this world had passed through an era that
      roughly resembled his world. But the medieval era, as it was
      called, came and went in a few hundred years. A few hundred years
      was a <em class="calibre8">blink</em>. It was window-dressing. It was a rounding
      error. Adventurers routinely investigated ruins of civilizations
      <em class="calibre8">hundreds of thousands</em> of years old that had access to
      comparable—or even, if their traps were any indication,
      superior—mundane technology. Hells, Malbutorius the Dark, an
      epic-level Lich with a soul blacker than the sun isn't, had been a
      thorn in the side of humanoid civilization since the dawn of
      <em class="calibre8">time</em>. Even the Elves couldn't remember a time when he
      didn't exist. Milo's world was locked in stasis, and the only
      reasonable explanation for it was magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you coming, or what?" Ron asked him, waving a hand in front
      of his face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry," Milo apologised. "I was..." he was going to say 'in an
      internal monologue,' but he doubted they had those here. "thinking
      how we could get back at Malfoy." They were standing in front of
      Platform Nine and Three-Quarters, and the others had all gone
      through already. <em class="calibre8">Well, nothing for it...</em> Milo ran at the
      wall, not even having the scant comfort of having luggage ahead of
      him, in case the barrier unexpectedly turned solid—Milo kept all of
      his possessions, save for his mountain of salt, in his Belt of Many
      Pouches.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Despite his concern, he came through the solid-looking wall
      without problem, followed shortly by Ron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do any of you have a... funny feeling?" Milo asked the
      group.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not another one," Hermione groaned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, it's like... remember what I told you last year?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"About how everything we'd see in the early days of the
      adventure would be important for later," Milo clarified.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right, that," Harry said. "What about it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It might be too early to say, but... well, things just haven't
      been <em class="calibre8">ominous</em> enough," Milo said. "Before you say anything,
      I <em class="calibre8">know</em> it's a ridiculous thing to complain about. But,
      frankly, as it is, I have <em class="calibre8">no idea</em> what to expect this
      year. Have any of you heard any, I don't know, whispered
      conversations that broke off abruptly when you came near? Or had
      any foreboding dreams?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope," Ron admitted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry," Harry said. "None of those."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe it'll be a normal year," Hermione said wistfully, "and
      we'll be able to focus on our studies and futures."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah... maybe..." Milo couldn't help but feel as if he was
      missing something critical as he boarded the train.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On the far side of the platform, Ginny pulled out her new quill
      (really a hand-me-down from Charlie) and dipped it into her new
      inkpot (really a hand-me-down from Bill) to hurriedly write in her
      new leather-bound diary (really fifty years old, but it was, unlike
      all of her other possessions, so far unused). <em class="calibre8">September
      7</em><em class="calibre8">th</em><em class="calibre8">, 1992</em>, she began. <em class="calibre8">Dear diary,</em>
      <em class="calibre8">I am about to step on the famous Hogwarts Express (!) for the
      first time, and I'm very excited-and-sort-of-nervous, though Harry
      Potter hasn't even noticed me, yet...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">D&amp;D Tip:</strong> The filter mask is an extremely
      under-appreciated piece of gear. Available for a measly 1gp from
      Sandstorm (p.99-100), it grants a +2 against gas-based effects
      (think traps, <em class="calibre8">Stinking Cloud</em>, maybe even
      <em class="calibre8">Cloudkill</em>) as well as significant situational bonuses
      against sandstorms. Also a necessary fashion choice for anyone who
      wants to play FFI's Red Mage or a ninja of one variety or another.
      From a purely mechanical standpoint, there's no reason why anyone
      wouldn't wear one. Besides, who doesn't like keeping track of more
      conditional modifiers?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">D&amp;D Tip #2:</strong> The crafting trick really
      works. If wages become tricky to handle, use undead. The problem is
      that there's a maximum number of skeleton HD you can control that
      way, based on your level. Make a magic item of Animate Dead 1/day,
      and pay random commoners to use it for you, and order the resulting
      abominations to follow your orders. The skeletons don't have to be
      humans, in fact, I believe it's funniest if they're squirrels.
      Undead have the advantage of not requiring sleep, so they can work
      24 hours per day instead of the usual 8, tripling their
      effectiveness. With Int -, they have a +0 crafting bonus, so
      roughly half of them can successfully aid another. They can aid
      you, or, if you're out adventuring, just aid a regular skeleton.
      The silver piece value they can make in a week is around, depending
      on what you craft, 3*((10+skill bonus)^2).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If you have trouble justifying to your DM that nonintelligent
      squirrel skeletons could make masterwork swords (or whatever),
      describe it as less of a workshop and more of a production line.
      Each skeleton does something minor, like move a certain tool or
      object in a specific way <em class="calibre8">ad infinitum</em>. Each squirrel does
      one step (a single hammer blow, a single scrape with a whetstone)
      and passes it to the next squirrel.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That's just the tip of the iceberg. If raw material cost (1/3rd
      of the finished product) becomes a problem, use <em class="calibre8">Walls of
      Iron</em>. 50gp raw materials and 660gp of casting fees produces a
      <em class="calibre8">lot</em> more than 710gp of iron, which is 1sp/lb. A CL 11
      <em class="calibre8">Wall of Iron</em> produces 11*5*5*(1/6)=45.833 cubic feet of
      iron, which is 22,527lbs, which is 11,263.5gp in raw materials. But
      double-check that, math is not my strong suit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Or you could skip the skeletons and just sell raw iron. As a
      commodity, its value isn't halved for sale. Cha-ching!</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">(Don't actually do this)</em></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
