<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Tom Riddle - Origins of a Dark Lord - Tom Riddle - Origins of a Dark Lord Chapter 1, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Tom Riddle - Origins of a Dark Lord"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">As Tom sat in the musty waiting room, staring at nothing,
      kicking his legs against his chair, Madam Chani frowned over her
      novel as she appraised her surroundings.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Out of all the children over all the years, only three have
      forced my hand thus far! The good Lord knows I've no truck with
      <em class="calibre7">psycho-analysis</em>, but there is no other option if you are
      to continue living with us, after all that's happened."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom kicked harder. "If you don't like it, we needn't be
      here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old woman shook her head. "How many times must I explain?
      The magistrate would whip you if you hadn't promised to come to the
      clinic! Not to mention breaking your probation! And you a lad of
      only eight!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom sniffed. He was almost nine, and not an idiot. He was well
      aware that his behaviour was illegal, but he didn't actually
      understand why. It wasn't as if anyone actually was hurt, and when
      he asked the magistrate, the man stammered that he didn't see why
      he should have to explain himself to a boy. In other words, thought
      Tom, he didn't know why either. But it wasn't surprising: Tom
      Riddle had long noticed that he was smarter than every single other
      person he met.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To his guardian he simply replied, "Oh, I see."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmph! I doubt that severely! Indeed! I've had bad children,
      I've had strange children, and I've had frightening children, but
      to encounter all three wrapped into one package! I'd sooner have
      you out of my home, but alas, am obligated to give you this
      chance." She then shot Tom a quick look of contempt before getting
      back to her novel.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom gritted his teeth. <em class="calibre7">You'll get that wish one day, never
      fear, old hag.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tom Riddle?" A voice called from behind a desk. Tom rose, asked
      "Yes?" and was pointed toward an office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He walked in and was greeted by an old man with a hunchback and
      no hair. "Hello Tom! How are you today?" The doctor said with a
      smile that did not reach his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm good sir, how are you?" Tom asked as he took a seat on the
      sofa.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quite well, Tom, quite well!" Dr. Ormskirk made a note of
      something on his pad. "Well, my boy, have you thought about what we
      talked about last time?" The man was leaning forward and looking at
      Tom strangely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Is he trying to appear interested in me or
      something?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes sir, and I realize you were right. No matter what the
      reason, you have to allow a person to privacy." The practiced
      speech rolled smoothly off his tongue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not only did you violate their privacy, Tom, you went much
      further…" The doctor was scribbling notes again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom had to bite his lip so he wouldn't scream about just
      deserts, which inspired him on the next thing he should say. "Yes
      sir I know, I acted very wrongly. I was angry, sir, so angry I
      couldn't think, but now that I know, I'll be able to take a step
      back to calm down, so anger won't control me again." Tom peeped at
      the Doctor to see if he found that believable, but he was confiding
      his thoughts to his notepad rather than Tom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Interesting idea, you may be right," The doctor said. "But
      anger issues, along with, other deeper problems. You seem to be
      ignoring that." Once again he was punishing his notepad. After
      another long moment of scribbling he added, "I also feel as though
      I am being manipulated in some way here, Tom…" The man's pen was
      cocked and ready to unload in rapid fire again, but he was staring
      at Tom, deep into his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom made his eyes go wide and bewildered. "Muh-nip-you-late-ed?
      I'm sure I don't know what that means, sir… Anyways I know that I
      tend to get angry, and I know why I get angry, and how to prevent
      it getting to where I do something foolish. I think that especially
      now that I've thought about it so much, it will be less of a
      problem."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man went on as if he hadn't heard him. "Everybody gets angry
      Tom, everybody makes foolish mistakes. Some of those people end up
      suffering consequences for those choices they made in the moment,
      whether that is striking somebody out of anger, or throwing a stone
      through a window after a few drinks. You, my boy, didn't act in the
      moment, what you did required premeditation, calm collected
      planning and execution."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom had to bite his lip again, this time to prevent a smile.
      <em class="calibre7">Only half an hour of planning. Suppose an hour, and I
      wouldn't've been caught at it this time.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Honestly sir, my mind's a bit of a muddle. Maybe all that anger
      was building up for so long that it just took a spark to kind of
      ignite and burn hot and long before withering out…" Tom tried.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you are convinced it has 'withered out,' as you put it?"
      the doctor asked carefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Never.</em> "It seems so, sir."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What if there is an ember left yet, and somebody starts to blow
      on it again? Will it become a flame once more?" Tom could almost
      hear the pad of paper sighing in relief at the momentary break.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe…" Tom allowed, before continuing, "I think I know how to
      smother it before anything like this happens again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I'll take my time and plan when I am calm so I don't make
      stupid mistakes…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The doctor didn't seem convinced, or perhaps he really wanted to
      use up all the ink in that pen, the scraping of ink on paper almost
      sounded like screams of pain from the defenseless pages. After he
      wrote for a minute or two, he turned to Tom, staring at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom sat there, looking curiously into the doctor's eyes for
      several minutes as the doctor matched his gaze.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Odd flashes of imagery crossed Tom's mind so briefly that he
      couldn't comprehend them. The man broke his gaze and Tom noticed
      that he seemed slightly uncomfortable for some reason.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Once again, I win a staring contest.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dr. Ormskirk rubbed his head, sighed, made a few more notes and
      then spoke again. "I think we are going to require a few more
      sessions yet, Tom. You aren't being truthful with me, and there is
      a lot more we need to get to the bottom of."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">O God! Will this nonsense ever end?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom had hoped that "needing counseling" would give him a more
      feared reputation at home; it had only done the opposite and given
      the stronger kids another reason to pick on him...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">
      /*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">November 5th:</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Guy, Guy, Guy! Poke him in the eye!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The orphaned boys made quite merry over being allowed to make
      their own bonfire, and sang and danced - all but one, who crouched
      far from the circle of children, quite close to the fire.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The yellow and orange tendrils of fire licked upwards into the
      darkness, spewing bright white sparks which danced in the wind and
      faded away. Tom continued to stare into the blaze; the sound of the
      song being sung around him by a few of the children was washed out
      by the cracks, pops and sizzling of the burning wood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The fire obscured all of his perceptions and engulfed him. The
      longer Tom watched the flames, the more he felt like they were part
      of him. There was something other than heat that reached out from
      the fire and washed over Tom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom noticed a moth buzzing around - the wind changed
      momentarily, the flames reached too close, and it burned up with a
      quick hiss. Tom smiled in amusement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Foolish creature, venture too close to the flames and you
      will be consumed.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">A quick flash of pain across the back of his head brought Tom
      back into reality: the fat boy Jameson was now more powerful than
      even the fire…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why aren't you singing along with the other arses, Riddle?" The
      boy was always asking stupid questions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't like this song." Tom replied simply, as he rubbed the
      sting out of the back of his head where he had been slapped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jameson nudged Tom with his flabby side. "Why not? Are you a
      Catholic? Then we can burn you too, you seem to like it so much.
      I'll help you in if you like." The fat boy kept bumping him further
      and further as he spoke.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom had been painfully taught to hold his tongue, but he wanted
      badly to inform Jameson of his own fiery fate. But Jameson would
      once again use his weight to overcome Tom if he spoke up. Tom would
      probably find himself on the ground begging for mercy while vowing
      silent vengeance as the other children laughed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jameson leaned back a little further and pushed toward Tom extra
      hard this time to completely knock him down. Tom held steady, and
      stood up just as Jameson was about to impact him, leaving him to
      fall into the dirt as he simply walked to the other side of the
      fire, where Matthew Merrick was quietly sitting alone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, run away Tom! I'll see you later." Jameson's voice
      sounded less angry than it ought, almost as though the warmth of
      the flames this close washed away a little of the power the boy had
      over Tom. Jameson kept speaking as Tom was making his way to
      Merrick, but the quiet roar of the camp fire prevented noise like
      an invisible wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom sat down beside Matthew and looked at the boy; he nodded at
      Tom. Tom returned the nod, knowing that was all the interaction the
      boy would expect, or want from him. That was precisely why he
      preferred Matthew's company to any of the other children's.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom glanced back over towards Jameson, taking some effort to
      ignore the flames, and he noticed the fat boy had forgotten that
      Tom existed and was now tormenting some other smaller child.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Always picking on those smaller and weaker...
      coward!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom didn't let the fat boy occupy his thoughts too long: the
      fire was calling to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He stared into the white orange glow. While there were children
      standing close to the flame and warming their hands, Tom didn't
      notice them, they were outside the fire.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The flames had texture to them, they weren't quite a substance,
      but they were... <em class="calibre7">something</em>. They felt like that
      <em class="calibre7">something</em> that Tom could just feel in the air sometimes,
      and he could feel it now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The base of the fire was orange coals, spewing sparks and giving
      life to snakes of flame. As Tom watched the coals, they seemed to
      glow stronger, orange slowly became white, as though a wind was
      fanning them and raising the temperature.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom let his eyes creep upwards a little and look at the bottom
      of the flames, wide and inconsistent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Fire should not waver or flicker…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">(The children standing near the inferno stepped back a couple of
      paces suddenly, but Tom failed to notice that.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom watched the tongues of fire reach upwards, moving back and
      forth, as though they were waving to him. He could almost see
      shapes forming - the long thin streaks of flames started to look
      more like snakes. Tom's head turned to the side and his mouth
      opened a little as he watched... the snakes had form, he could see
      their heads, and their tongues lashing out. He could see their
      scales and eyes, their colors even…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom blinked twice; the blues, greens, purples and other colors
      that fire shouldn't have started to fade away, and Tom was sure he
      had imagined it, though when he looked around a few of the other
      children had confused looks on their faces as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Madam Chani had returned from wherever she had gone an hour ago
      to leave the group to their own devices, and she was walking a
      little unsteadily. Her voice however was as loud and clear as
      ever.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All together now children, back home we go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She didn't actually look at any of the children when she said
      it, but they all heard, and they obeyed. Slowly they gathered their
      things and made their way back to the orphanage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nearly everybody was walking home, but Tom lingered walking
      slowing and watching the fire.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Somebody should have put that out, there are leaves
      everywhere…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nobody else seemed to care that there was an unattended bonfire
      blazing in the middle of London; Tom didn't understand why he was
      the only one who saw the potential in the strange, indescribable
      power which coursed through a fire.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">It'll be 1666 all over again.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom caught up to the line of orphans, but he couldn't help
      staring at the sky as he walked. He made out Orion, and Cygnus, and
      -</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Eyes front, Riddle," said his roommate, Alexander, who'd he'd
      just bumped into.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom slowed his pace just enough that he wouldn't stumble, and
      let the majesty of the Milky Way absorb him on the walk home.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
