<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>natural 20 missing - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 3: The Sorting Ceremony, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="natural 20 missing"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s3" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 3: The Sorting Ceremony</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">The first years all filed into the Great Hall apprehensively as
      McGonagall explained about the four houses. Milo mentally filed
      them into: house for the PCs, house for the villains, and two NPC
      houses to make up the numbers. Fair enough.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The other first years around him were nervously discussing what
      they thought the Sorting Ceremony would entail. The group
      conclusion seemed to be that it would be some sort of horrible
      test, performed in front of everybody. Milo's post-level-up elation
      hadn't passed yet, but he still wished he hadn't burned so many
      spell slots on helping Neville find that toad. There was a
      kerfuffle as a group of ghosts drifted through the walls, but Milo
      was already ready for this. He shuddered to think of what he would
      have done in this situation had he not met the late Professor Binns
      the other day.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The students were formed into a line alphabetically by
      McGonagall, and once more Milo cursed his last name. Why couldn't
      he have been Milo Liadon-Amastacia instead? The only person in
      front of him was a pink-faced, blonde girl.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wh-what do you think I'll have to do?" she asked, the signs of
      abject terror on her face. "I'm first! Why am I <em class="calibre7">always</em>
      first?" she asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't worry, you'll be fine," Milo said. "They expect
      <em class="calibre7">everyone</em> to do this test, remember? So how hard could it
      be?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"B-but…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And besides, they wouldn't start out every year by humiliating
      all their new students."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe it's all just a cruel joke, and everyone will laugh at
      me," she said through tears.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If they do, I'll unleash magical hell on them," Milo muttered.
      What he <em class="calibre7">meant</em> was, 'if they do (that to <em class="calibre7">me</em>) I'll
      unleash magical hell,' but that's not what the frightened young
      girl heard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You would? For me? Th-thank you!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't mention it," Milo said, slightly embarrassed, and cast
      about for some fairly generic encouraging platitudes. "You're
      braver than you think. Just keep that in mind, and confidently walk
      up there, and whatever happens, happens. Uh. There's bravery in
      everyone, you just have to look," he finished, somewhat lamely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When I call your name, you will put on the hat and sit on the
      stool to be sorted," McGonagall said to them. "Abbott, Hannah!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The girl looked determined as she walked up to the stool, and
      while in another life she might have been sorted into Hufflepuff
      (not that that's anything to be ashamed of, of course), perhaps it
      was because she was thinking <em class="calibre7">I'm braver than I think, I'm
      braver than I think, I'm braver than I think</em>, when the hat was
      placed on her head, it only took a moment before it bellowed:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"GRYFFINDOR!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Amastacia-Liadon, Milo!" McGonagall said. <em class="calibre7">Well, here goes
      nothing</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"GRYFFINDOR!" the hat shouted after barely touching his head,
      and his new house applauded as if it wasn't already a foregone
      conclusion. Gryffindor was <em class="calibre7">clearly</em> the house for main
      characters. To confirm his suspicions, Neville, Hermione, Ron, and
      Harry were all sorted into Gryffindor (although, oddly, the hat
      seemed to have a hard time deciding with Harry). Draco and his
      minions, however, were sent to Slytherin. Milo wondered briefly
      what would have happened if one of Crabbe or Goyle had been sent to
      Gryffindor—or, perhaps even worse, Hufflepuff. Milo looked around
      the tables, and found that, oddly, the plates and dishes were all
      empty. He shrugged and pulled his Everlasting Rations out of his
      utility belt, and started munching.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whacha got there?" Asked Hannah, who had, for some unimaginable
      reason, sat next to him at the table. On Milo's left was Hermione,
      followed by Harry, Ron, and Neville.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Everlasting Rations," Milo explained, gesturing to the blue
      silk pouch. "They're not very common—I heard about them in an
      obscure book, and had to get them custom-made—but they're super
      handy. Every sunrise, the bag fills itself up again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Convenient," she said somewhat dubiously. "They tasty?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, I don't think anyone's ever asked that before." He
      thought about it for a moment. "Tastes a little like granola, only
      even less."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She made a face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't think we were supposed to bring a lunch, do you? They
      <em class="calibre7">will</em> feed us?" she asked. Milo shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione?" he asked, on the assumption that she'd know.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione paused briefly, as if doing a mental catalogue search
      for the relevant information, before reciting as if from
      memory:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"'Hogwarts is world-renowned for owning some of the best cooking
      elves, and prides itself in never having one complaint for its
      dining experience. Durmstrang Acadamy, by comparison, has received
      four-hundred and forty-four complaints as of the 1991 fifth edition
      of this book,'" she said. "It's in <em class="calibre7">Hogwarts, A History</em>.
      You should read it sometime."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Elves?" Milo asked incredulously. "For cooking?" Milo had never
      known an elf to approach within twenty feet of a frying pan, and
      doubted that a single solitary potato the world over had ever been
      peeled by delicate, elven hands. Milo was convinced that they were
      holding out on a rare, Arcane-version of <em class="calibre7">Create Food and
      Drink</em>, because otherwise, their civilization would have
      crumbled to dust about two weeks after creation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wish I was rich enough to own an elf," Ron said dreamily. "I'd
      never have to clean my room again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo's brain heard the sentence, of course, but rejected it
      immediately with a notice: 'Does not parse.' <em class="calibre7">Own</em> an elf?
      He must have misheard. Before he could ask, the Headmaster
      spoke.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wecome!" Dumbledore said. "Welcome to a new year at Hogwarts.
      Before we begin, I would like to say a few words. And they are:
      Nitwit! Blubber! Oddment! Tweak!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then sat back down again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is he… a bit mad?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, yeah, he's a bit of a nutter, but some people say it's a
      disguise and he's really a genius," Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He seemed normal when I last talked to him," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you don't get to be Chief Warlock of the Wizengamot and
      Supreme Mugwump of the International Confederation of Wizards by
      collecting bottle caps," Hermione said. "Or by being stark raving
      mad," she added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone looked at her again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was in <em class="calibre7">Hogwarts, A History</em>, and honestly, don't
      <em class="calibre7">any</em> of you read?" she asked, slightly indignantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quidditch magazines, mainly," Ron admitted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Newspapers rescued from the trash, but only when the Dursley's
      weren't watching," Harry confessed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Outside of spell books and fell arcane tomes? Not that much,"
      Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You should try it sometime, you might find it fairly
      enlighten—oh, my goodness!" Piles and piles of food appeared,
      suddenly, in front of them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh, neat trick," Milo said. "I <em class="calibre7">knew</em> the elves cooked
      their food by magic. Pointy-eared pansies never worked a day in
      their lives."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His last sentence drew a number of odd looks, but fortunately,
      most people were too busy digging in to pay much attention to him.
      Harry Potter in particular looked like he was about to cry tears of
      joy at the food laid out in front of them. Milo shrugged. To him,
      food was something to keep you from getting hunger-based check
      penalties. While the rest of the party was distracted by food (Milo
      made sure to cast <em class="calibre7">Detect Poison</em> before he touched any of
      it), Milo decided to check out the head table.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The teachers at Hogwarts were the quirkiest bunch of characters
      he'd seen since Milo had been hired to take out a gnome barbarian's
      band of performing cutthroats. One of them was wearing a purple
      turban. One of them was <em class="calibre7">tiny</em> (Milo couldn't tell, from
      this distance, if he was a gnome, halfling, or dwarf). One of them
      was Albus Dumbledore, for gods' sakes. The last, though… now,
      <em class="calibre7">he</em> was <em class="calibre7">really</em> interesting. Black cloak. Greasy
      hair. Hooked nose.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Necromancer, hands down. Milo grinned. <em class="calibre7">Ladies and gentlemen,
      we have our dark wizard</em>. Milo gave it a fifty percent chance
      that the professor was working for You-Know-Who, with the
      <em class="calibre7">other</em> fifty percent saying he <em class="calibre7">was</em> You-Know-Who.
      The only nail missing from his coffin was a goatee.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, Hermione, who's he?" Milo gestured to the obviously evil
      wizard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"'Professor Severus Snape, born 1960, made Potions Master at
      Hogwarts in 1981 by Headmaster Albus Dumbledore, and as of 1991, is
      the Head of House Slytherin,'" she recited. "<em class="calibre7">Hogwarts, A
      History</em>, page 371."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're a very useful person to have around, you know that?"
      Milo asked. Hermione beamed. "Harry, listen up. Add Snape to your
      list, he's bad news."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you sure?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Absolutely. I mean, just <em class="calibre7">look</em> at him. He's wearing all
      black, for goodness sake."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er, I don't mean to put too fine of a point on it, but we're
      all, also, wearing all black, Milo," Harry said, gesturing at his
      uniform.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's black of a different sort. We're in the sober, working
      black. He's in <em class="calibre7">evil</em> black. Back me up here, Ron."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fred and George say he's a smarmy git, and he favours Slytherin
      students outrageously," Ron said. "They also say that he's half
      bat, he can read your mind, and that shampoo spontaneously combusts
      when it touches his hair, but I think they made that last one
      up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's probably just allergic to shampoo," Hermione said. "He's a
      <em class="calibre7">professor</em>. He can't be <em class="calibre7">evil</em>, or Dumbledore
      wouldn't let him teach here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo barked a laugh. They clearly had <em class="calibre7">very</em> different
      views of education.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry abruptly clutched his forehead in pain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's wrong?" Hermione asked in concern.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was just looking at Snape, and suddenly my scar hurt," Harry
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The scar You-Know-Who gave you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, the <em class="calibre7">other</em> scar on my forehead, of <em class="calibre7">course</em>
      the scar Vol- You-Know-Who gave me," Harry snapped. Hermione
      blushed slightly. "S-sorry," he said. "I didn't mean to be mean, I
      was just so <em class="calibre7">angry</em> all of a sudden… it was weird."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd say that's basically proof," Milo said. "Harry looked at
      Snape, and his curse scar hurt. Ergo, Snape is evil."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sounds good to me," Ron voiced his agreement. "I mean,
      <em class="calibre7">look</em> at him. Seriously."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think we should just jump to conclusions like this,"
      Hermione said. "One's fashion choices and hygiene, no matter how
      unfortunate, have no bearing on moral standing. Also, we should
      really tell an adult about Harry's scar, it might be important—he
      might need a healer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What does Snape need to do, eat a baby or something?" Milo
      asked. New PCs could be so <em class="calibre7">thick</em> sometimes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He hasn't even <em class="calibre7">done</em> anything yet," Hermione
      protested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She has a point," Harry added. "All he's done is sit there.
      Maybe he's a really nice bloke, and I don't think any of us know
      enough magic yet to say if my scar's reaction means anything. We
      should give him the benefit of the doubt."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine, it's your adventure, after all. But can we at least agree
      to keep a close eye on him?" Milo pleaded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They all agreed, albeit in Hermione's case, somewhat
      reluctantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore then stood to make another speech, laying out some
      ground rules. The Forbidden Forest was—hah, yeah <em class="calibre7">right</em>.
      Milo couldn't imagine a better way to encourage students to go
      there and gain XP than to forbid them from doing it. Milo's ears
      really perked up at hearing about the forbidden, trapped,
      mysterious corridor, however. Harry laughed when he Dumbledore said
      that anyone who investigated it would die a painful death, but
      nobody else did. The Headmaster was serious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo grinned. He loved this school already.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't believe Quidditch is restricted to second years," Ron
      complained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's Quidditch?" Harry, Hermione, and Milo asked
      simultaneously. Ron fainted into his pudding. Once he came around,
      he described the rules. It was some unbelievably dangerous-sounding
      sport (two of the players' jobs were to send heavy leather balls
      flying at the opposing team!) played on broomstick. As Ron
      explained about the Golden Snitch, Milo considered it thoughtfully.
      From what he could tell, the Seeker's success or failure completely
      invalidated everything that the other players did. It was as if the
      sport was set up entirely to give Seekers a backdrop to compete
      against.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I <em class="calibre7">like</em> it!" Milo said. "It has <em class="calibre7">everything</em>.
      Magic, danger, and rules blatantly skewed for the PCs to shine.
      Harry, make sure to write this down." The Boy-Who-Lived dutifully
      added it to his growing list of plot-relevant items.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think it sounds stupid," Hermione declared, ignoring Ron's
      protests. "And way too dangerous to be allowed in a school setting.
      Flying in general sounds dreadful."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore sent them all to bed, so Percy—as Gryffindor
      prefect—led the first years to their lair. En route, they were
      attacked by Peeves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Peeves! Show yourself!" Percy bellowed. "He's a poltergeist—be
      careful, he only answers to the Bloody Baron. That's the Slytherin
      ghost."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Getting all this, Harry?" Milo asked. Peeves flew past,
      throwing sticks at Neville's head. "Prefect, that was an attack if
      I've ever seen one. Permission to retaliate?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, I don't think that will be necessary. He knows that if he
      goes too far, I'll tell the Baron," Percy said. "Besides—" Percy
      was interrupted, however, when Peeves unloaded a bucket of water on
      the prefect's head. "Hit him with everything you've got, Mr.
      Amastacia-Liadon. <em class="calibre7">Everything</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Glitterdust</em>!" Milo shouted, the shower of sparks
      blinding the poltergeist for <em class="calibre7">twenty-four</em> seconds, now
      (level-ups were the greatest), and preventing him from turning
      invisible. Peeves, whirling in astonished fury, began dropping
      walking sticks, pies, and associated other miscellany on the
      students. "<em class="calibre7">Feather Fall!</em>" Milo cast, slowing their descent
      to a harmless speed. As a <em class="calibre7">coup de grace</em>, once the
      blindness wore off, then created a <em class="calibre7">Silent Image</em> of the
      Bloody Baron slowly drifting around the corner. Peeves bolted,
      leaving a trail of glittering dust in his wake.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well <em class="calibre7">done</em>!" Percy congratulated him, after using a
      Cleaning Charm to dry himself off. "Is everyone alright? Excellent.
      That was Peeves the Poltergeist, if you encounter him in the halls,
      it's best to find a member of the faculty or the Bloody Baron. He
      won't hurt deliberately hurt you—though his pranks can at times get
      out of hand—but he's irritating, and might make you late for class.
      After decades of certain disreputable Hogwarts students using
      Peeves as an pretext for tardiness, teachers have stopped accepting
      run-ins with the poltergeist as an excuse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo couldn't believe they had random encounter <em class="calibre7">within the
      castle walls</em>. This school was <em class="calibre7">awesome</em>. Percy led
      them, finally, to the Gryffindor Common Room, which was guarded by
      a painting requiring a password. Milo hadn't realized that
      inter-house rivalry was quite so… <em class="calibre7">heated</em>… as to require
      secret bases and passwords, but it fit with his general theory of
      Hogwarts education.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Both Harry and Milo felt at home immediately upon entering
      Gryffindor tower, but for different reasons. Harry was overwhelmed
      at all of the magic and wonder, and glad to finally be rid of his
      abusive foster parents. The sense of camaraderie in the dorm was
      something new and amazing to him. Milo, on the other hand, felt the
      calling of all wizards everywhere, regardless of universe:
      wizard=tower, tower=wizard. He was excited for tomorrow, when he
      could fully enjoy the benefits of being fourth level, and memorize
      a whole slew of new spells. He decided, after a bit of thought, to
      add <em class="calibre7">Levitate</em> and <em class="calibre7">Invisibility</em> to his repertoire.
      He made sure to prepare an extra <em class="calibre7">Silent Image</em> in case of
      another run-in with Peeves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The next morning was… interesting. Word had spread that the
      famous Harry Potter was attending school, and Milo's unfortunate
      friend was pestered with constant whispering and glances. Milo
      suggested that he borrow some makeup from Hannah (Hermione didn't
      seem the type) and hide the tell-tale scar (minor details only gave
      +5 to Disguise checks), but Harry adamantly refused, claiming it
      was the only reminder he had of his parents. Ron howled with
      laughter at the suggestion, adding that some eyeliner or, as he put
      it, "guyliner," would really bring out Harry's emerald eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Their first class was Herbology, which Milo figured was safe
      enough. He was a bit concerned that learning about plants meant he
      might be obliged to invest Skill Ranks in Knowledge (Nature), or,
      Vecna forbid, Survival, but after clarifying that it was
      <em class="calibre7">magical</em> herbs they were studying, Milo was quite convinced
      his Knowledge (Arcana) would be up to the task. History of Magic
      was likewise no trouble at all, Milo spent the class trying to
      figure out what his immediate response would be when the ghost of
      Professor Binns invariably snapped and starting draining the
      students' Constitution scores, or when an evil Cleric showed up and
      seized control of the undead Professor with Command Undead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Flitwick apparently taught Charms, which was a problem
      for Milo. As a specialized Conjurer, he was obliged to drop two
      schools of magic—he chose Necromancy (he didn't look good in pale
      make-up and mascara) and Enchantment (he was uncomfortable about
      mentally controlling people). The Charms subschool fell neatly into
      the second category of spells, which Milo was forbidden from
      casting. Fortunately, the excitable professor, who Milo was
      convinced was some sort of deformed gnome, fainted dead away when
      he called Harry Potter's name while taking attendance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What have we got next?" Milo asked Ron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uhh, let me check," the redhead said, patting his pockets for
      his schedule. "Transfiguration with McGonagall. I hear she's really
      strict."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Transfiguration, eh? That… might be a problem," Milo frowned.
      That would involve, presumably, performing actual magic with a
      wand—something Milo hadn't even tried to do. He was worried that if
      he actually succeeded, he might wind up as a multi-classed
      Wizard/"wizard," and be doomed to spend the rest of his days as a
      walking joke of a character.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why's that?" asked a first-year NPC. The other Gryffindors had
      started following Milo around between their classes after word
      spread that he could scare off Peeves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor McGonagall was so astonished that the entire class
      arrived on time (apparently, that had never happened before) that
      she awarded them five points for Gryffindor. After then warning
      them of the dangers of Transfiguration, she told them to try and
      transform a matchstick into a pin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo broke out into a cold sweat, staring at the stick in front
      of him. Surely, wizards in this plane couldn't cast <em class="calibre7">Polymorph
      Any Object</em> at first level? That was an eighth level spell!
      Milo felt a bit foolish waving his wand around ineffectually, but
      he really wasn't sure what else he could do. Hermione, sitting next
      to him, had managed to turn her matchstick silver.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo's eyes narrowed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Prestidigitation</em>," he murmured. It was a cantrip, a
      0th-level spell, used for practice by novice casters—but it was
      also one of the most versatile. Milo preferred to think of it as
      <em class="calibre7">Least Wish</em>. One of its many effects was that it could
      recolour an object temporarily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He then sat back smugly in his desk chair, satisfied with a job
      well done.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall passed by, giving encouragement and pointers to the
      struggling students she passed. Upon reaching Milo, however, she
      frowned and stared at the silver matchstick. To Milo, it was
      indistinguishable from Hermione's. McGonagall picked it up,
      examined it very carefully, and dropped it on the desk. It made a
      quiet, wooden <em class="calibre7">tick</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Amastacia-Liadon," she said sternly, "did you
      <em class="calibre7">paint</em> your matchstick?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"N-No, Professor," he stammered. Drat, curse her cross-class
      ranks in Intimidate!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then bravo. One point for Gryffindor," she said grudgingly,
      before walking to Hermione. She frowned, and gave hers the same
      examination. She dropped it, and it gave a silvery metal
      <em class="calibre7">ping!</em> Upon colliding with the desk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well <em class="calibre7">done</em>, Ms. Granger! It's been many years since
      I've seen someone change anything more than mere colour on their
      first try! Two points for Gryffindor!" Hermione turned slightly
      pink, and shot Milo a smug look when McGonagall passed by.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Next was Potions—with the Slytherins, no less. <em class="calibre7">Whoever is
      involved in the scheduling of classes</em>, Milo thought,
      <em class="calibre7">should be awarded a medal</em>. He couldn't think of a possible
      scenario that would lead to greater conflict than the obviously
      evil head of the obviously evil house teaching the heroes and
      villains <em class="calibre7">together</em>. Put a PC in a powderkeg like that, and
      there'd be an explosion, sure as sure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo was the only Gryffindor smiling when they entered Snape's
      dungeon. <em class="calibre7">Dungeon</em>. It had been <em class="calibre7">far</em> too long since
      Milo had been in a proper dungeon, now all they needed was a troll
      or two to complete his day.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo didn't know what, specifically, was going to go down in the
      dungeon. But he knew someone was going to start a fight, and he
      <em class="calibre7">knew</em> who was going to finish it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He chose his desk warily, deciding to go right in the
      dead-centre. The rest of the Gryffindors sat on the right-hand side
      of the classroom, leaving the left-hand side empty—a clear message
      for the Slytherins (whenever they deigned to arrive). From the
      border between the two groups, Milo could safely target the entire
      Slytherin first year with a well-placed spell on the first round of
      combat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There is an infrequently-used rule (and Milo loved
      infrequently-used rules) called the <em class="calibre7">ready action</em>. A
      character can, on his turn, ready an action to do something
      specific when certain triggers, which he chooses in advace,
      occur—immediately. It allowed rapid action, as long as you were
      prepared enough.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the Slytherins drifted in one-by-one (a few were covered in
      whitewash, mute evidence of Peeves' "humorous" "pranks"), Milo
      readied an action: Glitterdust <em class="calibre7">in the centre of the Slytherin
      side of the room as soon as the first Slytherin acts offensively
      against a Gryffindor.</em> That should cover it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape walked into the room like a man with a purpose. He quickly
      called out attendance, pausing on Harry's name.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, yes," he said softly. "Our new—<em class="calibre7">celebrity</em>." Draco
      and his mooks sniggered. The other Gryffindors sitting along the
      borderline—Neville, Hannah, and Lavender—sat tensely, their hands
      near their wands. Snape began his introductory monologue,
      lingering, a bit <em class="calibre7">too</em> lovingly for Milo's taste, on the
      'subtle science and exact art of potion-making.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Potter!" said Snape, suddenly. Harry sat bolt upright, a brief
      look of terror on his face. "What would I get if I added powdered
      root of asphodel to an infusion of wormwood?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo frowned. <em class="calibre7">Nothing</em>, he thought. <em class="calibre7">Except, of
      course, a gods-awful smell</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know, sir." Harry said. <em class="calibre7">Ah, well, even Wizards fail
      a Knowledge check once in a while.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tut, tut—fame clearly isn't everything," Snape sneered.
      <em class="calibre7">Well now, that's just</em> rude.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's try again. Potter, where would you look if I told you to
      find me a bezoar?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's hand shot into the air, as did Milo's.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know, sir," Potter said, his voice barely shaking at
      all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thought you wouldn't open a book before coming, eh,
      Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Well now, there's no reason for him to act like that to the
      poor</em> Gryffindor <em class="calibre7">kid,</em> Milo thought. <em class="calibre7">In fact, the
      head of House</em> Slytherin <em class="calibre7">was acting downright</em>
      offensively<em class="calibre7">… Oh, crud.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">GLITTERDUST!</em>"</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
