<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>natural 20 missing - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 4: The Defence Professor, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="natural 20 missing"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s4" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 4: The Defence Professor</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, it really could have been worse," Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can't see how," said one of the Patil twins (the Gryffindor
      one, whatever her name was).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," said Lavender Brown, "at least the bloodshed was kept to
      a minimum."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And St. Mungo's says Neville's supposed to make a full
      recovery," added Hannah Abbot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And we weren't expelled," Hermione pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Also," continued Lavender, "Snape managed to <em class="calibre7">Finite</em>
      that toad—who summoned that, anyway? I don't think I've ever seen
      quite that shade of orange before—before Pansy Parkinson suffered
      permanent injury."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really, it's a wonder he knew which one to cast it on. Couldn't
      tell the two apart myself," muttered Ron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think only taking ten points off showed remarkable restraint,
      all things considered," Hermione mused. "Shame it was from every
      first year in Gryffindor, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because, you know, seeing as how she looks like a toad," Ron
      said, disappointed at the initial lack of response.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Assuming we don't assault the Slytherins anymore, and we all
      put in a few extra hours and some hard work in practice and
      revisions," Hermione said cheerfully, "I think we might be able to
      manage to beat the Hufflepuffs at least—not that there's anything
      wrong with them, perfectly respectable house—in the House Cup
      standings."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Seamus and several other largely interchangeable first years
      groaned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing a Golden Snitch or two won't fix," Ron said hopefully.
      "Wood reckons—assuming we can find a Seeker half as good as Charlie
      was—we stand a decent chance at taking the Quidditch Cup from
      Slytherin this year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Cease</em>," said the Bloody Baron. He didn't exactly
      shout, and it wasn't exactly <em class="calibre7">loud</em>—in fact, it seemed
      little more than a whisper. But even over the ten complaining
      eleven-year-olds (and Hermione, who was in fact twelve) the ghost's
      voice was clearly audible. "Be glad it's only house points and
      detention… when I still attended this school, we didn't use the Cat
      O'Nine Tails."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Gryffindors fell silent. A few scratched their heads,
      pondering the Baron's last statement. Harry knew he shouldn't—he
      really, <em class="calibre7">really</em> knew it—but he just couldn't help himself.
      He had to ask.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"D-don't you mean, you <em class="calibre7">still</em> used the Cat O'Nine
      Tails?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. It was introduced by a weak, soft headmaster after Emeric
      the Evil retired—by a <em class="calibre7">Hufflepuff</em>, as I recall," the Baron
      mused. Harry swallowed. <em class="calibre7">If a nine-tipped whip was seen as soft
      enough for a</em> Hufflepuff<em class="calibre7">—not that there's anything wrong
      with them—to use instead of whatever they did before…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The entire first year of Gryffindor was in detention, overseen
      by the silvery coloured ghost of Slytherin. Their task was simple
      enough on the surface: they had to keep the suits of armour that
      lined the halls of Hogwarts free of rust. The catch wasn't that
      they couldn't use magic (which they couldn't, of course) or even
      that they were supervised by the Bloody Baron (Milo couldn't help
      but wonder <em class="calibre7">where</em> the Bloody Baron's eponymous blood came
      from. <em class="calibre7">It isn't because the Baron died violently, or Nearly
      Headless Nick would be at</em> least <em class="calibre7">as bad</em>...) but it was
      that the paintings were ordered to ignore them during
      detention.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now, you may be thinking, "is that all?" And if so, it is
      because you've never been eleven years old in a shopping mall after
      closing time, completely alone, with only a teddy bear. Only in
      this case, the shopping mall has (at last count, and rounding up) a
      completely unknown number of floors. And the staircases move. As do
      some floors. One notable corridor appears to <em class="calibre7">twist</em>
      somewhere in the middle, and by the end of it you're walking on
      stone and there's a carpet along the ceiling. But only on every
      other Tuesday, except on leap years. And the shopping mall is a
      castle. And that castle is Hogwarts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">And</em> <em class="calibre7">your teddy bear is missing</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It only took half an hour for Hannah (Neville was still in St.
      Mungo's) to vanish.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, the thing we need to do is not panic," Hermione said
      calmly, "and search for her in a <em class="calibre7">group.</em> As long as we all
      stay together, we should be—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nah, that's rubbish," Ron interrupted. "We're at a four-way
      intersection, and there's still nine of us. We can find her faster
      if we divvy up, send two in every direction except one, which gets
      three. Faster we find her, the faster we clean these ruddy
      statues."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, there's only <em class="calibre7">three</em> directions to go in unless we
      go backwards and in any case that's beside the point because if we
      split then <em class="calibre7">we'll</em> have to stop and go looking for
      <em class="calibre7">you</em>—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, just because you're so much <em class="calibre7">smarter</em> than all of
      us?" Ron asked rudely. "For all you know, <em class="calibre7">we</em> could have to
      go find <em class="calibre7">you</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's exactly my point!" Hermione shouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So we're in agreement. We split up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No!" Milo shouted. "You <em class="calibre7">never</em> split the party!
      <em class="calibre7">Never</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're one to talk, you got us into this mess," Lavender
      accused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Says the girl who lit Pansy Parkinson on fire," that Patil girl
      muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That cow had it coming," Lavender said defensively. "She called
      me a cow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're getting sidetracked," Hermione insisted. "We need to find
      Hannah, and the best way to do that is to systematically search
      every room and hallway, as a group, that she could have got to in
      ten minutes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That could take the rest of our lives!" Ron said. "Let's just
      split up and find her already!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I'm telling you—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine, how about a compromise? I'll split up with Harry, Dean
      and Seamus, you and the others stay together. Coming, Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry gave an apologetic look and followed Ron and the others
      down the corridor on the right-hand side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione sighed. "Okay, well the rest of us can start on the
      left and work our way through—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who put you in charge, anyway?" Lavender asked. "Parvati, Fay,
      and I can take the centre. We'll have found Hannah and be back to
      cleaning statues while you're still <em class="calibre7">organising</em>." Lavender
      strode off, followed by a pair of witches.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Parvati!" Milo said. "So <em class="calibre7">that's</em> her name."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione groaned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, I sometimes wish I'd been sorted into Ravenclaw," she
      muttered. "This sort of behaviour would never stand there. I don't
      suppose you have any tricks up your sleeve?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Loads," said Milo. "But <em class="calibre7">Locate Creature</em> is a
      fourth-level spell, and I can only do up to second. And unless
      Hannah's met an unfortunate end, <em class="calibre7">Locate Object</em> won't be
      able to find her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh," said Hermione. "So you can find objects with magic, but
      not living things?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, that's basically what I just said. Any unique object I've
      seen firsthand, or the closest one of a type of object."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Find her robes," commanded Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo paused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think that's cheating," he said. "Or at least, bending the
      rules to the point of breaking... I <em class="calibre7">like</em> it." He imagined,
      as best he could, Hannah's robes in his mind—easy, because they
      were exactly the same as the ones he and Hermione were wearing.
      "<em class="calibre7">Locate Object</em>—Hannah's robes<em class="calibre7">.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, where is she?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh. Sort of between forwards and left, and up a little. Now
      down. Now up again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What? Any idea how far?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, except that she has to be within the range of the spell.
      560 feet at the outer limit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They decided to head left, based on the fact that it seemed to
      have as big a chance of being correct as forwards and they didn't
      have to deal with Lavender and whoever those other two girls
      were.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wish Neville were here," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why's that?" Hermione asked as they walked. He was nice
      enough—for a boy—Hermione supposed, but he wasn't exactly
      <em class="calibre7">useful</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, see, if he were then <em class="calibre7">he'd</em> be the one who
      wandered off and got lost. Then we'd be looking for him," he
      explained, "and not Hannah Abbot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have a very unusual view of the world, you know that? So
      tell me," she asked slyly, "why would you rather Hannah were here,
      with us?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because then there'd be three of us, and we'd have a higher
      chance of making our Spot checks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Our what's?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Spot checks. You make them when, say, Peeves is sneaking up on
      you from behind. And I have a feeling we failed one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And why is that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just a feeling I get sometimes—wait. Hannah's moving." The
      spell stopped tugging him forwards and left, and abruptly started
      pulling more to the right. And then down, rapidly. "She's falling,"
      he said. "And depending on the distance, it might be pretty
      fast."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We should find a professor <em class="calibre7">immediately</em>," Hermione
      said. "She might be hurt."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For once, I agree with you—but how are we going to find one?
      Face it, we're lost."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gah!" Hermione said. "There must be <em class="calibre7">something</em> we can
      do. What other spells do you know?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo started listing. For an ordinary Wizard of his level, there
      would be only about a dozen or so—but Milo was no ordinary Wizard.
      He was an <em class="calibre7">optimized</em> Wizard, and one extremely broken
      ability he'd traded the ability to make magical scrolls for allowed
      him to cast any kind of wizard Divination spell—spells for finding
      things, information, and people—he'd heard of. He'd heard rumours
      that it could be used for non-Wizard spells as well, but Milo was
      unwilling to risk it. He knew the horror stories of what could
      happen to those who bent the rules too far... suffice to say that
      the universe could be capricious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can <em class="calibre7">read people's minds</em>?" Hermione gasped, after
      Milo explained <em class="calibre7">Detect Thoughts</em>. "You're a Legilimens!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"First of all, that's not a word, and second of all, only
      surface thoughts. There's a whole bunch of restrictions on it,
      too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Other than <em class="calibre7">Locate Object</em>, though, there's not much
      there to help us. A rather large amount of them seem to be focussed
      on fighting, which can't be very useful."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo chuckled slightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, not today, maybe. We're completely screwed, aren't
      we?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unfortunately," Hermione said. She sighed and slid down a wall,
      sitting on the cold stone floor. "If only we could ask one of the
      portraits for help."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"M-m-might I b-be of assistance?" Asked a timid voice. Behind
      them stood the erratic Professor Quirrell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"See. Told you we failed a spot check," Milo muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor! You have to help us!" Hermione blurted out. "Hannah
      went missing and everyone ran off to go find her, and now we're
      hopelessly lost. We can't ask the portraits for help, because
      we're... in... detention." She said the last three words slowly, as
      if her mouth found them strange and foreign. Milo shrugged. He'd
      never been in detention, either, but then again he'd never really
      gone to school before.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sh-shouldn't be t-terribly difficult," he stammered. "W-when I
      w-was in R-R-Romania once, my p-party was separated by v-v-v-"the
      blood drained from his face, and he sat down shakily.
      "v-vampires."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">There's vampires in this world?</em> Milo thought worriedly.
      He made a note to start taking anti-vampire precautions.
      <em class="calibre7">Garlic, holy symbols... where's a Cleric when you need
      one?</em> Milo sniffed. Quirrell's turban emanated the distinct
      odour of garlic. <em class="calibre7">Smart</em>, Milo thought, <em class="calibre7">in case they're
      recurring characters and come for revenge</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hold up," Milo said. "Vampires in this world: do they act like,
      well, like normal vampires? You know, suck blood, never age, can
      turn other people into vampires? That sort of thing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Y-y-yes," Quirrell stammered reluctantly. He clearly didn't
      want to talk about vampires anymore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They <em class="calibre7">don't age</em>." Milo repeated again. "So they could
      live forever unless they ran out of blood or someone stakes
      'em?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I-I s-s-s-suppose so," Quirrell said. His stammer was
      increasing in frequency.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Milo, we have to find Hannah. We'll worry about vampires later,
      okay?" Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, this is important," he said. Hermione opened her mouth to
      say <em class="calibre7">Hannah is important, too</em>, so Milo added, "Really
      important."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione frowned, but fell silent. Quirrell looked
      intrigued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So: we know You-Know-Who wanted to become immortal at any cost,
      right?" Milo said. "I don't know much, but it sounds to me like
      that was one of his major motivations."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Quirrell said. "Yes, he did ever seek eternal life."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And, we know that You-Know-Who didn't really die," Milo said.
      Hermione sighed. <em class="calibre7">We don't</em> know <em class="calibre7">that,</em> she thought.
      <em class="calibre7">We don't even suspect it. We don't have a shred of
      evidence.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do we, now?" Quirrell asked. "Do we, <em class="calibre7">really</em>? Who else
      knows?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just us, but it's obvious to anyone with a brain. I'm sure
      Dumbledore knows all about it, and Harry, Hermione, Ron and I, of
      course, are going to stop him. Anyways, back to the point: becoming
      a vampire isn't nearly as nontrivial as, say, some sort of secret
      dark ritual for eternal life or I don't even know what. All it
      takes is a couple of minions and a vampire: vampire turns you,
      minions kill the original vampire, you're free."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To what purpose?" Quirrell asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Immortality, of course. Eternal unlife. I think we should
      seriously consider the possibility that You-Know-Who is a vampire,"
      Milo concluded. He had a nagging feeling, like he failed a skill
      check of some sort, but it was probably nothing. "He doesn't seem
      the type to mind having to drink blood every so often to live."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell frowned, but said nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We need to find <em class="calibre7">Hannah</em>," Hermione stressed. "She could
      be in serious danger—and all the other first years are still
      scattered across the castle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When last I saw, th-the young M-Miss Abbot w-was swimming to
      the sh-shore of the lake," Quirrell said, his eyes going briefly
      distant. Milo wondered what possible reason someone would need to
      use both Still and Silent spell on <em class="calibre7">Scry</em>. "P-Percy the
      G-G-G-G- ah, your house's P-Prefect was attempting to u-use a
      H-H-hovering Charm to a-assist her. I-I believe she is q-quite
      well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that's a relief. I wonder how she wound up there?"
      Hermione asked. "We should probably try to find all the others now,
      too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The task proved somewhat more difficult than they'd hoped, and
      even with the help of the paintings (who could, at Quirrell's
      request, attempt to locate the students but not speak to them), it
      took the better part of the afternoon. Lavender and co had been
      delayed by Peeves, who managed to convince them that Hannah was
      just around the corner (and then around the next corner, and the
      next, and so on until they were hopelessly lost) while Ron had
      found himself locked in an old, unused classroom, but when he
      turned around the door had vanished. Harry and Seamus had got
      cornered by Filch and lectured lengthily about wandering off. They
      finally found Dean sitting comfortably in the Gryffindor common
      room, but he refused to say how he'd got there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Great," Hermione said worriedly, "just great. After detention
      and then hunting down our classmates without enough sense to wander
      off, I haven't had the chance to even touch <em class="calibre7">The Dark Forces: A
      Guide to Self-Protection</em> for a whole day! I've probably
      forgotten everything and Defence against the Dark Arts is
      <em class="calibre7">tomorrow</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Insufferable, isn't she?" Ron asked Harry, who looked
      uncomfortable. "How many times have you read that book already,
      Hermione?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Three," she said, then the blood drained from her face. "Oh my
      god, only three! I'm not going to know <em class="calibre7">anything</em> what if
      there's a <em class="calibre7">quiz</em> or he <em class="calibre7">asks me</em>, I'm going to j-just
      stand there in front of everyone and not know the difference
      between a Grindylow and a Boggart!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, in the name of Elminster's pointy hat, is a Boggart?"
      Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A household pest that takes the form of whatever its viewer
      fears," she said shakily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have shapeshifting fear monsters as house pests here?" Milo
      asked, impressed. "Cool!" Mordy, sitting on his shoulder, nodded
      vigorously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"W-we aren't supposed to learn about them until third year but
      maybe Professor Quirrell will try to get the jump on us like Snape
      did with Harry, so I thought I should be prepared and read ahead a
      little, but what if it isn't enough? And I wind up sitting there
      like Harry did until this trigger-happy lunatic assaults the
      Slytherins again," she nodded to Milo. "I'm <em class="calibre7">sorry!</em> I don't
      mean to be insufferable!" she was looking really distraught.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, it's alright. Ron's just upset because you were right
      about not splitting up, and it made him look a mite daft," Harry
      said gently. He looked at Ron. "I'm sorry, but it <em class="calibre7">did</em>." He
      turned back to Hermione. "He's embarrassed, is all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, me, mate? Embarrassed?" asked Ron, defensively. "Nah.
      It's only that this bookworm keeps just <em class="calibre7">leaping</em> at the
      chance to show how much better she is than us. Really, she should
      have been in Ravenclaw. Then her own kind would have to put up with
      her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione fled the Common Room, sobbing. Hannah shot him a look
      that could petrify a Medusa with PC class levels, and chased after
      her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" he asked. Harry shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think she's been hit by a <em class="calibre7">Crushing Despair</em> spell,"
      Milo said. "Maybe I should go find her, and see if I can—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No." Parvati Patil said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—see if I can dispel her," he finished. "Then she'd be
      fine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't even dream about it. Hannah will handle it, you stay
      here. Magic," Parvati said, "is <em class="calibre7">not</em> the problem. Ron, a
      word?" she asked, sounding deceptively sweet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, in a mo, only me and Harry were about to play Wizard's
      Chess," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, Ron. <em class="calibre7">Now</em>." The girl insisted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've <em class="calibre7">finally</em> had a response from my contacts at the
      Ministry," Dumbledore said to his assembled Heads of Houses.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Albus, it's been nearly a week. Surely they could have
      responded earlier?" Minerva McGonagall criticised, sitting down
      across the desk from him. She wondered how he could even think in
      this office, with all its whirring and clicking silver
      contraptions. When, and hopefully it would be a long time from
      today, she became Headmistress she would have them carefully and
      respectfully placed in a closet someplace. A clean one, of course,
      but on the other side of the castle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unfortunately, not even Merlin himself could devise a spell
      capable of cutting through red tape." Dumbledore sighed. "The short
      answer is that there have been no reported attacks on any wealthy
      wizard's residence recently, and no detections of underage magic
      from the vicinity around Hogsmeade."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I knew it," Snape sneered. "The boy spun us a web of lies. No
      mere child could escape Death Eaters."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I really had thought better of him," McGonagall sighed. "Oh
      well, I suppose he <em class="calibre7">is</em> only a boy. Any word on the
      broomstick, Filius?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, as we all know, reported thefts are kept quite
      confidential down at the DMLE," Filius said. McGonagall sighed,
      she'd hoped they could make headway there. "But I have a friend
      from my duelling days down in the Department of Mysteries, and he
      used to share an office with someone in the Department of Magical
      Law Enforcement, and <em class="calibre7">he</em> says that while no official
      reports have been filed, his old flame down in the organ that
      handles broomstick registry claims that Walden Macnair—who works as
      Executioner for the Ministry, but he's an ex-Death Eater—recently
      bought a Nimbus Two Thousand," Flitwick said proudly, then paused
      to catch his breath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which tells us what, exactly? These... broomsticks... are, I'm
      led to believe, extremely popular," Snape said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They are also extremely expensive, and Macnair already owned
      one." Flitwick said with aplomb.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hardly evidence. A man can have two broomsticks," Snape said.
      To Dumbledore, however, he gave a quick, discreet nod. Dumbledore
      sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have other information, and I dare not say from where or who,
      that suggests the Death Eaters are up to their old game again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Sprout gasped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Surely not, Headmaster? Not with their leader dead, and their
      numbers reduced?" she asked, her voice gripped with fear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm afraid so, Pomona."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We should contact the Aurors at once!" McGonagall
      exclaimed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Without any proof? Lucius would have any who acted sacked,"
      Snape sneered, slouched across his chair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm afraid, Severus, that you are correct," Dumbledore said.
      "We shall have to be extra vigiliant."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And, what of the boy?" Flitwick asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He shall continue his education here at Hogwarts until he
      learns to control his magic—accidents like what happened in
      Severus's Potions class <em class="calibre7">cannot</em> be allowed to happen out
      where Muggles might see—and until we are <em class="calibre7">certain</em> Macnair
      and his comrades have forgotten that young Milo stole the
      broomstick," Dumbledore said. "He appears to be an exceptionally
      confused and troubled young orphan, but his heart is true. Quirinus
      spoke very highly of him this evening, and how he attempted to help
      rescue—unsuccessfully, unfortunately—a number of lost
      Gryffindors."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape smiled briefly. He was particularly proud of that
      punishment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which brings me to another matter," Dumbledore continued
      gravely. "Hagrid has been finding something most concerning in the
      Forbidden Forest." The Heads of Houses listened carefully,
      intrigued. "He's found signs—blood, some hair—that something has
      been attacking the unicorns who live there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sprout gasped. McGonagall looked stunned. Flitwick shook his
      head sadly, and even Snape looked disgusted. Attacking a unicorn
      was low, even by his standards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hagrid has been unable to find whatever has been causing the
      attacks, but Quirrell has volunteered, as Defence Professor, to
      take over the investigation. He said that it was likely the work of
      some fell creature—or possibly even a powerful dark wizard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If the collective amount of surprise felt by the assembled
      professors were expressed in terms of, say, water, using the
      baseline of one fair-sized pink plastic beach bucket full of
      seawater representing the surprise felt when a politician suggests
      something sensible in Parliament and a bathtub full of water
      representing the theoretical surprise <em class="calibre7">not</em> felt when the
      idea <em class="calibre7">doesn't</em> get ridiculed by the opposing party, then
      their earlier surprise (when they heard of the unicorn attacks)
      could be collected in a two-litre bottle of Diet Coke (once said
      Diet Coke has been safely disposed of alongside other toxic
      chemicals) while their current surprise, caused by hearing that
      Quirrell had volunteered for something dangerous, was almost, but
      not quite, the size of the Mediterranean Sea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, now," McGonagall mused. "It seems we've quite
      underestimated the Defence Professor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed, it appears that, in a crisis, he can really pull
      himself together," Filius said. "I'm rather proud of him,
      actually."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He also pointed out that this is an <em class="calibre7">excellent</em>
      opportunity for detention," Dumbledore said. "Between him and
      Hagrid, any students with them will be quite safe, but absolutely
      petrified."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're not suggesting we <em class="calibre7">deliberately</em> send children
      into the Forbidden Forest—it got its name for a <em class="calibre7">reason</em>,
      Albus—to hunt after something vile enough to attack a unicorn?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I, for one, rather like the idea," Snape said. "Should make
      that <em class="calibre7">boy</em> think twice about attacking <em class="calibre7">my</em>
      students."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I heard there's <em class="calibre7">werewolves</em> in the Forbidden Forest!"
      Ron said when they heard the news. McGonagall had come to inform
      them that Quirrell had offered an alternate detention for Harry,
      Ron, Hermione, and Milo; and that while it <em class="calibre7">was</em>
      particularly awful, if they went then the statue-cleaning
      punishment for <em class="calibre7">all</em> the Gryffindors would be reduced.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not a full moon, Ron," Hermione sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, werewolves are <em class="calibre7">real</em>?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Obviously</em>, everyone knows that," said Ron. "They're as
      real as dragons and goblins."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Dragons</em> are rea—no, nevermind. If we do this, it
      counts against how many statues we have to clean—and after the last
      time, I think we want to avoid that," Harry said. "I'm in."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Same. The experience <em class="calibre7">alone</em> will be well worth it,"
      Milo said. "And I can probably handle anything they throw at
      me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're insane, mate," Ron said. "I'd sooner clean another
      <em class="calibre7">thousand</em> statues than set one foot in that forest."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm with Ron," Hermione said. "Cleaning isn't so bad, and that
      sounds <em class="calibre7">really dangerous</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We'll be fine," Milo said. "Quirrell will be with us, and
      <em class="calibre7">I</em> for one like the cut of his jib."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And Hagrid will be there," Harry said. "What's the worst that
      could happen?"</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
