<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Following the Phoenix - Flashes - Following the Phoenix - Flashes Chapter 1: Summer Job, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Following the Phoenix - Flashes"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1: Summer Job</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Note:</strong> this "story" is actually a
      collection of "flashes" set in the months and years following the
      main events of <em class="calibre8">Following the Phoenix</em>. If you have not yet
      read the main story, this will not make much sense. <em class="calibre8">Following
      the Phoenix</em> can be found under my pen name (hezzel), then go
      to My Stories. Or directly skip to s/10636246/1/</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Please note: I am not actively developing this story anymore,
      just writing the occasional chapter because I enjoy writing and
      some of these ideas stuck in my mind. <em class="calibre8">Flashes</em> has no true
      plot, and some of the flashes are likely to be less interesting
      than others. I guess what I'm saying is: please don't feel obliged
      to read this even if you did enjoy FtP. :) Also, please do not
      expect regular updates; I will probably keep posting now and then,
      but there will be large hiatuses.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For those who have spent the past few months reading many
      HPMOR-sequel-fanfics: remember that FtP is <em class="calibre8">not</em> a sequel,
      it's a spinoff, which does not include the final arc of HPMOR. In
      FtP, souls exist, Harry Potter is just Harry Potter, and his pet
      rock simply died due to negligence. At the end of the story,
      Hermione has a phoenix, the statute of secrecy has fallen and Harry
      has gained a new mentor.</p>
  
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">July 1992.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione loved her parents. That much was really beyond
      question. And she <em class="calibre8">was</em> thrilled that, after all the changes
      the last months had brought, she could finally involve them in her
      world, showing them all the wonders of magic and the culture
      surrounding it. However, she had to admit that <em class="calibre8">certain</em>
      things had been significantly more practical when magic was secret,
      the Hogwarts staff operated on a need-to-know basis with respect to
      Muggle parens, and she was able to carefully refrain from telling
      them anything that would particularly worry them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The permission form lay on the table between them. She was a
      minor, after all, and needed parental permission for a summer job,
      especially a potentially hazardous one, no matter what she may have
      been up to in the previous months.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione is <em class="calibre8">twelve</em>," her father said in a strained
      voice. "Don't you have adults who can do this work?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Frankly, no," the man from the British Space Agency said
      calmly. "There aren't that many people with a phoenix in the world,
      and most of them are too old, too busy, or don't understand the
      first thing about technology. What's more, none of them are
      <em class="calibre8">ours</em> – British citizens – except for one old man who has
      neither the time nor the inclination."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not safe," her mother protested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Actually, there's no reason to expect any danger," the man
      contradicted her. "We're aware of her youth, and won't lightly
      assign her any hazardous missions. Her tasks will be primarily
      research-related – for example, we'd like to test the speed of a
      phoenix, and whether it's subject to relativity. <em class="calibre8">If</em> we
      send her into space – and rest assured that you'll have to agree on
      every individual mission of such a nature – it'll be done with all
      possible precautions. For example, before even <em class="calibre8">thinking</em> of
      allowing Hermione to go to the moon, we'd send an older witch or
      wizard there in the usual way to verify that the conditions are no
      problem to magic users. We'd also confirm beforehand that magical
      creatures can survive, and have a rocket with trained astronauts
      near the place where she would arrive, just in case. She could be
      returned the normal way if the phoenix should fail her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or you could take her to a satellite first?" Her father brought
      up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," the man nodded calmly. "Although that might actually be
      <em class="calibre8">less</em> safe, since magic is apparently known to disturb
      electrical devices. That's actually another test we'd like to
      perform soon – how much and what kind of magic our devices can
      handle, and whether the conditions of outer space affect this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione looked from her father to her mother.
      "Pleeeeaaaase?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mother frowned deeply. "Herm, dear, do you know how many space
      missions have gone wrong? Real life isn't like the movies, quite a
      few astronauts have died!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not the same!" She argued. "I'll have Xare with me, and
      people protecting me and magical shielding and everything. Plus,
      you heard Mr. Town, it'll mostly be about research, all on
      earth."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In the beginning, perhaps," her mother said sharply. "But I
      expect we'll be seeing quite a few more forms before the year is
      over!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mum," she begged. "Please? I really want to do this, and I
      think it <em class="calibre8">needs</em> to be done. It could mean so much for
      everyone... there's so much we could learn! And it honestly doesn't
      seem all that dangerous." Xare rubbed her beak against Hermione's
      cheek in support, and agreed with a loud "<em class="calibre8">Caw!</em>".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her parents just gave each other a long look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Town," her father asked. "Do you mind if my wife and I
      discuss in private for a few moments?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not at all. I can return later, if you prefer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just a few minutes." The two disappeared into the kitchen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione bit her lip. Unfortunately, this really was her
      parents' decision, and aside from putting on her most convincing
      pleading, there wasn't all that much she could do about it. And
      yes, in all fairness, even with the BSA being very careful, there
      probably <em class="calibre8">would</em> be a little bit more danger than a
      twelve-year-old child was generally exposed to in the Muggle world.
      It was just that, after everything that had been going on for the
      past year, her sense of danger had been recalibrated a bit.
      Anything the adults in the British Space Agency were likely to
      allow a girl her age to do was probably not much more dangerous
      than the average flying lesson in Hogwarts. After facing the
      Wizengamot twice, all her escapades in Azkaban, hopping over the
      world destroying Dementors, being lethally shot and evacuating
      people in the middle of a battle to the death, she just couldn't be
      afraid of merely doing magical research in outer space. Besides,
      with Xare by her side, she was doomed to get into hazardous
      situations anyway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The door opened and her parents returned. There was a tense
      silence, before her father broke it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione," he began, in a grave tone. Her heart sank. Of the
      two, he had been the one who seemed more positive about the
      possible adventure. "I hope you understand our concerns. Just a few
      weeks ago we learned that, despite everything your Professor
      McGonagall told us about Hogwarts being safe, you ended up being
      framed for murder, judged as an adult, and thrown into a rather
      horrifying prison – which we had to learn about from the
      television."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione squirmed. There had been <em class="calibre8">words</em> about that,
      although her parents had at last accepted that at the time she had
      had good reasons to postpone the inevitable confrontation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We would never go behind your back, sir," Mr. Town assured
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know, I know," father sighed. "It's just that... after that,
      and then the sudden war, you can probably see why we're a
      <em class="calibre8">little</em> worried about assurances of safety. Really, we want
      nothing more than to keep our little girl close to us, wrap her up
      in cotton wool and keep her away from anything dangerous for the
      rest of her life."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you <em class="calibre8">can't</em>, Dad," Hermione argued. "There's always
      going to be <em class="calibre8">some</em> dangers. And it doesn't seem like it
      would be that bad in this case, while there's a <em class="calibre8">lot</em> of
      good that I could do with the space program."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We know, honey," her mother agreed quietly, glancing at Xare.
      "And we know that you're never going to have a normal childhood no
      matter what we say." She grimaced sadly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her father cleared his throat. "All things considered, you're
      probably right. In comparison to some of the things you've been up
      to this year, going to the moon seems positively mundane. And
      that's not even what your main work will be for the time being." He
      looked at the BSA man, who nodded calmly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So... you'll let me go?" Hermione hardly dared to ask it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's get this straight: we want <em class="calibre8">good</em> reassurances, we
      want to be kept <em class="calibre8">fully</em> into the loop, we <em class="calibre8">will</em> look
      over everything that requires our permission, we want to be able to
      end or suspend your contract at <em class="calibre8">any</em> time, <em class="calibre8">and</em>
      we'd like some words with the magical government about additional
      protections they can give you. But conditional on that... yes,
      we'll allow it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Hermione squealed and jumped to hug her parents, the phoenix
      cawed a rousing battle cry.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
