<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Following the Phoenix - Flashes - Following the Phoenix - Flashes Chapter 12: The Good, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Following the Phoenix - Flashes"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s12" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 12: The Good</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">October 1992.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good morning, Mr. Kaiton."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good morning, Madam Healer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You sound quite cheerful," the woman smiled. "Did you sleep
      well?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not at all," he beamed. "It was absolute, horrendous torture
      for hours on end. Even worse than regrowing the tissue yesterday."
      He carefully wiggled his fingers. "Seems to have worked
      though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, my usual patients aren't quite so happy about taking
      Skelegro."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, well, they're wizards, ain't they?" She nodded. "They
      take it for granted. Me, I've had to do without my right arm for
      five years. I never thought I'd get it <em class="calibre8">back</em>. That's...
      I'll take all the pain you can dish out for that. Do you have any
      idea just how many things need two hands?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quite a few, I imagine." She gave him a long look. "I never
      really thought about it that way, but I suppose it must be a very
      different experience for Muggles who never realized that a cure
      existed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Totally. But you know, even knowing about magic, it wasn't like
      I could hope to <em class="calibre8">get</em> it. There's nowhere near enough magic
      to cure everyone, and me, I'm just a ex-metal worker living on
      benefits, there's no way I could afford to pay for this! I wouldn't
      have had a chance if it weren't for the NHS lottery. And with that,
      not one in a thousand people like me end up getting help. I'd be an
      absolute prat to be ungrateful for any of this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see your point. But for a happy thought, problems like yours
      are going to be a lot more rare in the future." She smiled as she
      started running her wand over his arm. "It takes a relatively high
      effort to <em class="calibre8">regrow</em> limbs – at least for Muggles where the
      potions need to be guided along – but it's the work of a few
      minutes to stop them from getting amputated in the first place, if
      all that's wrong is something like a squashed arm. A number of
      people are working on an initiative to enable Muggle Healers to
      inform available Magic Healers for specific high-urgency issues.
      We're using the trial run as a training tool for Healers, actually.
      Even a first-year apprentice can handle many of the emergency room
      problems that typically get Muggles killed or handicapped."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I hadn't heard about it..." Peter smiled contently. That sort
      of precaution would definitely have helped him. Yes, the world was
      getting better by the day.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
