<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Following the Phoenix - Flashes - Following the Phoenix - Flashes Chapter 5: Transfiguring Energy, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Following the Phoenix - Flashes"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s5" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 5: Transfiguring Energy</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"All right," Dr. Madelaine Deyne summarized. "Transfiguration is
      not permanent. I get that. But that's really the <em class="calibre8">only</em>
      danger?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh no, certainly not," the middle-aged wizard who had
      introduced himself as Master Blake protested. "But it's the
      <em class="calibre8">main</em> one. Problems like instability only tend to occur
      during experiments."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dr. Deyne frowned. "Right. So how does this work at the
      molecular level? If you transfigure a block of ice into wood and
      burn – <em class="calibre8">yes</em>, I know you shouldn't do that, but
      <em class="calibre8">hypothetically</em> – would you get water vapor? Hydrogen? Or
      even hydroxide or hydronium, or odd bindings that would never occur
      in nature?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Master Blake shifted uncomfortably. "This is getting into
      <em class="calibre8">theoretical</em> transfiguration. You know our mandate is only
      to look for practical applications – there's a moratorium on any
      foundational study until enough experts on both sides have been
      cleared to perform such a study in a responsible way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She huffed in annoyance. With rules like that, it was a miracle
      if they were ever going to make <em class="calibre8">any</em> progress.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How will I even <em class="calibre8">get</em> that clearance without knowing the
      basics? And how do you expect me to make any practical suggestions
      without a theoretical understanding?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Transfiguration masters come up with applications all the time,
      without knowing the first bit about chemistry," he pointed out.
      "What you ask simply isn't know at present."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Seriously?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He smirked. "Oh yes. I know a bit about science – my parents and
      brother were Muggles – but magic isn't like that. We understand the
      surface rules of magical systems like transfiguration, no more. You
      can do a lot, merely knowing <em class="calibre8">how</em> something works, not
      <em class="calibre8">why</em> it works."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But... if <em class="calibre8">you</em> knew about atoms, why didn't you ever
      –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Money," he shrugged. "Basic knowledge of physics and chemistry
      isn't <em class="calibre8">that</em> helpful. They can help you predict the
      stability of the result of a transfiguration, but to answer the
      kinds of questions you asked would require at least a partial
      university education, and a number of extremely expensive
      experiments. And I think you will find that in the magical world,
      the money is with the pureblood Houses, who tend not to be inclined
      to invest in research using Muggle ideas, especially when it's
      questionable whether the results would make a profit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">That</em> sounded remarkably familiar, at least, save for
      the blatantness of the bigotry. "I'll put the theoretical questions
      on hold – for now. Just for practical applications then..." Despite
      the annoyance, she <em class="calibre8">had</em> seen a few crucial breaches of the
      laws of physics that could surely be exploited. "Can you use
      transfigured things before they turn back? Like... like
      transfiguring a well-fed mouse, and having it run in a wheel?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Master Blake nodded. "I can't see why that would be a
      problem."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And if you attach a dynamo to the wheel? The generated energy
      would be non-magical... right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a pause.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I believe so," the wizard said finally. "There would have to be
      <em class="calibre8">extensive</em> testing, and I would set at least the fifth
      degree of caution, but that idea might just work. I take it you're
      not thinking of actual mice?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, that was just an example. If magic can violate conservation
      of energy, there are more effective methods. Like, can we directly
      create a battery to move that wheel? Or even better, what if you
      transfigure uranium, and use the nuclear energy to generate
      magic-free energy? We might just transition to completely
      sustainable energy overnight! And once the transfiguration wears
      off, you might even avoid nuclear waste – although I guess that
      gets into my theoretical question again." She paused. "Are you
      okay?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Master Blake had blanched. "That's... I..." He took several deep
      breaths, then drew himself up into a rigid pose.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"On my authority as a Transfiguration Master, I must ask you to
      keep this idea quiet," he spoke, his tone suddenly firm. "Don't
      breathe a word of it to anyone but recognized authorities. Don't
      even write it down in your diary, or anywhere else that someone
      might find it. Is that acceptable?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wha–" She stopped, suddenly noticing that a wand had appeared
      in his hand and his face was grim. The man had <em class="calibre8">seemed</em>
      genial, but she was suddenly very aware that the
      one-researcher-at-a-time setup had placed her, alone and unarmed,
      in a room that had been warded against eavesdropping, with a man
      who had the power to do <em class="calibre8">anything</em> to her, and make her
      forget it even happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She carefully refrained from making any threatening movements,
      and turned her voice calm and polite. "Why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Transfiguration Master relaxed a little. "Because what you
      propose is <em class="calibre8">extremely</em> dangerous, and yet very profitable.
      Profitable enough that I fear that, if this idea came out, someone
      would try it without the adequate precautions – especially since
      most Transfiguration Masters are not Muggleborns, and might be
      misled about the nature of splitting atoms. I'm not proposing to
      sink your idea; you're right, it <em class="calibre8">is</em> worth finding out
      whether this can be done, and others might come up with the same
      idea. I promise that, if the Muggle government pays for it, we'll
      do those experiments. But we'll first need some experts from both
      worlds to design them, and it's going to require the absolute
      <em class="calibre8">highest</em> degree of caution. A warded area in the desert
      with all possible protections magic can build is probably not going
      to be <em class="calibre8">enough</em>, but if we can get away from earth –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Madelaine just stared at him. He looked less intimidating now,
      but positively insane. "Aren't you exaggerating a little?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," he said simply. "I believe it is you who is
      underestimating the risks. Which is why I set those rules. I need
      you to take this very seriously."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But splitting atoms isn't <em class="calibre8">that</em> dangerous," she
      explained. "We've done it in the lab, when technology wasn't
      anywhere <em class="calibre8">near</em> as good as it is now. Even major tests of
      fully developed nuclear weapons don't use <em class="calibre8">that</em> kind of
      caution."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nuclear physics might not be all that dangerous," he conceded.
      "Transfiguration, however, is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She could only stare.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you think I was just being careful to frustrate you?" He
      asked softly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was hard to find her voice. "You teach this to
      <em class="calibre8">children</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Learning the skill young maximizes your potential," he shrugged
      helplessly. "So if we <em class="calibre8">didn't</em> teach the children, some of
      them would find a way to learn regardless. By giving them proper
      instruction instead, they at least learn the techniques along with
      the right way to think about them. More advanced techniques are
      only taught at N.E.W.T. level to those who have proved themselves
      on the easier material, and are either left out of books or buried
      in jargon. And then, of course, most people who foolishly dabble
      without true understanding tend to get themselves killed quickly.
      It takes an <em class="calibre8">intelligent</em> dabbler to cause true devastation,
      and <em class="calibre8">those</em> can usually be taught the wisdom to refrain. At
      least, with a competent teacher."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was silence for a while, as she parsed the
      implications.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have my word," she promised eventually. "But let me get
      this straight. For all that transfiguration is accessible to every
      kid with a wand, it is strictly more dangerous than nuclear physics
      and completely not understood on a theoretical level – so you can't
      even make solid predictions about it, which only exacerbates the
      danger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Correct. Are you starting to wish for the return of witch
      burnings yet?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh no, I'm starting to get excited. I <em class="calibre8">really</em> want to
      study the theory now. But I suspect that, if this is the safety
      standard I should keep in mind, it's going to take <em class="calibre8">years</em>
      before we will get to do those nuclear experiments."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wizard only nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So in the short term, we might want to stick to less
      sophisticated variations of the running mouse theme... maybe a
      flywheel? Or..." She stared into space, If the magical energy
      required to transfigure items only depended on the source and
      target size...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can you transfigure against gravity?"</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
