<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Following the Phoenix - Flashes - Following the Phoenix - Flashes First Witch on the Moon, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Following the Phoenix - Flashes"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s6" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 6: First Witch on the Moon</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">With one small step – that was also, in its own way, a giant
      leap – Aurora Sinistra became the first witch on the moon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Experiment 1: success. I can still function, and I still
      feel my magic.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She looked out at the stars, so much easier to see here than
      from earth, and she looked at the beautiful vision of the earth
      itself. She had seen it through the rocket's window, but it was
      even better in the flesh. Still, her time here was costly. Perhaps
      if Granger's mission could be approved, she would be able to come
      and back and walk – or bounce, for that matter – around at her
      leisure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom, the Muggle astronaut who'd left the rocket after her,
      passed her the plastic box. Carefully, very carefully, she opened
      it, revealing a set of squirming creatures. Flobberworms: utterly
      boring creatures which, however, functioned on magic rather than
      oxygen, which made them so useful in various potions. Flobberworms
      could survive in extreme environmental circumstances and, indeed,
      seemed perfectly fine in the less-than-comfortable conditions of
      the moon. She quickly closed the box again to avoid any of the
      creatures escaping and contaminating the biosphere; Tom took it
      from her hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Experiment 2: success. Magical creatures still seem to
      function.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was crucial; the scientists had suggested that perhaps with
      the moon's gravity being lower, its magical field may be affected,
      which could have disastrous consequences for phoenixes. But now, it
      seemed unlikely to be a problem. The overly-careful Muggles in the
      space agency probably still wouldn't allow young Miss Granger to
      phoenix-travel here, but they might be prepared to ask one of the
      adult phoenix owners to take the risk. That, or the next mission
      would involve some of the higher magical creatures, or magical
      races. It didn't seem likely that any House Elves or Goblins would
      be interested, but perhaps a centaur would be. For all the
      idiosyncrasies of their culture – their inclination towards
      isolation, their tendency to speak in mysteries – she suspected
      that members of the race of stargazers would love to be here.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But that was for later. She pressed a button on her suit, and
      her wand dropped into her hand. She waved it in the movements she
      had carefully practiced, compensating for the bulkiness of the suit
      with just the right twitches. "<em class="calibre8">Lumos!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Aurora looked at her wand, her heart beating rapidly. <em class="calibre8">It
      can't be.</em> She couldn't just have failed that, could she?
      Quickly, she tried again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Lumos!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once more, the spell didn't take. But surely she hadn't been
      turned into a Muggle – no, she could still feel her magic. But –
      now that she realized it – the magic wasn't flowing into her wand
      as it usually would.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Like a dead stick in her hand.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">No. No, that still wasn't right. It <em class="calibre8">wasn't</em> a dead
      stick; she <em class="calibre8">did</em> feel the connection... but it was
      different, weaker. And her magic didn't respond to her words and
      movements at all. Was this how a Squib would feel?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She controlled her breathing. It had to be just the location.
      Apparently those Muggles were wiser than she knew when they
      designed these experiments. There was no way it had affected her
      magical core permanently. Perhaps it had broken the <em class="calibre8">wand</em>,
      or maybe spells didn't work, but this was <em class="calibre8">not</em> going to be
      permanent. There was absolutely no reason to believe that it was,
      especially since her magic felt exactly as it always had. She was
      just caught up in the standard pureblood rhetoric. But still...</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Experiment 3: failure. Spellcasting does</em> not
      <em class="calibre8">work.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She really wanted to get back to earth now, to see whether it
      was true, that she really hadn't lost anything, but there were two
      more experiments she had to do. She bit down on the little potion
      sack in her mouth, and felt the taste of the <em class="calibre8">Draught of
      Peace</em> on her tongue. Immediately she became calmer and felt
      the characteristic warm touch on her mind. It wasn't much, because
      she hadn't been expected to actually <em class="calibre8">need</em> the potion, but
      it helped. And it was a good sign, too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Experiment 4: success. Potions still seem to work.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Time for the last experiment, magical artifacts. Tom was already
      holding out the pack of self-shuffling cards to her. He should be
      able to test this himself, but they had all agreed that only the
      magical person would interact directly with magic on this trip, to
      limit the risks to the other astronauts. She carefully took the
      cards out of the pack, and made the movement to initiate the
      shuffling. Again, absolutely nothing happened. It would seem like
      neither spells nor artifacts could be used away from the earth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Well damn.</em></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
