<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>28. Repairing Ignorance - Repairing Ignorance Chapter 1, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="28. Repairing Ignorance"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre6"/>
      <p class="calibre7">The door swung shut behind him with a gentle click.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">He had said he would only need two minutes. He hadn't lied.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">It would either work or it wouldn't. Everything he had
      experienced so far seemed to suggest it would, and the hope burned
      in him like a raging inferno.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">If it didn't work ...</p>
      <p class="calibre7">The time-turner could accomplish nothing. He had no resources,
      no leads, no way to choose between a thousand threads of potential
      research. No one with the knowledge required to guide him could be
      trusted, not with this. None had the right motivation; the
      <em class="calibre8">appropriate</em> motivation for this time and this place. They
      would keep him occupied and distracted.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">And those that would help, those who were coming to understand
      the world as it was, they didn't have the knowledge.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">It burned deep within him, that understanding. With a few
      well-chosen questions to someone with enough power and he could
      have narrowed his search immensely, perhaps constrained it enough
      to fit within the time-turner's limit. But there was no-one to ask.
      Even the defense professor had been evasive, tempting him to waste
      his time. Any answers he provided would be suspect.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">So all he had left was his own hubris.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">He could practically hear <em class="calibre8">her</em> voice, words of warning
      he had never heeded. Unintended consequences. The risk of vaporised
      death that lurked hidden inside transfiguration experiments, the
      improved Patronus that swallowed life as fuel.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">Not for the first time he cursed Merlin and his Interdict. The
      recursive irony of it; to hide the knowledge of dangerous spells
      one also obscured the risks associated with their rediscovery. Any
      witch or wizard could not know if a simple tweak to a minor spell,
      something a first year could do by accident or design, might
      unravel the foundations of reality. Magic didn't work on
      proportionate reactions, and taking away the knowledge took away
      the ability to avoid calamity.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">If he had known that to destroy a single dementor would simply
      tire him out, but to defeat a group would take more than he could
      give, he would not hesitate. He would draw up a roster and work in
      shifts, until every scar in the world was closed.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">But not knowing almost killed him, when the light filled him and
      his life poured out.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">He shook his head. It was one thing to know about the
      over-confidence bias, to have trained to account for emotions like
      <em class="calibre8">hope</em> when making his decisions, it was completely another
      thing to have no remaining options. To be lost and drowning and to
      know that you had one last chance to breathe clean air.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">He had read Kahneman and Tversky of course, the fathers of
      modern rationality. But beyond their work with heuristics and
      biases, he had also learned about framing. The earliest experiments
      showed that the <em class="calibre8">way</em> a question was asked would change the
      answer. The external environment influenced the decision as surely
      as any emotion could. He got that, on a cognitive level.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">Until now he never understood the implications beyond the
      elegant research papers. Questions are not only asked by people,
      but by situations, and faced with an <em class="calibre8">unknowable</em> risk, or a
      knowable and devastating loss, he had to make a decision.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">Harry Potter smiled sadly as he looked upon the body of Hermione
      Granger.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">For whatever happened next, he blamed Merlin.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">He lifted his arm, his holly and pheonix feather wand trailing
      streamers of golden light as it angled towards the still form that
      had been his friend. He uttered a single word.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre6"/>
      <p class="calibre7">"<em class="calibre8">REPARO</em>."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre6"/>
      <p class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre9"><em class="calibre8">Muscles, bones, joints.</em></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre7"><em class="calibre8">Springs, levers, pulleys.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre9"><em class="calibre8">Vessels, airways, gut.</em></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre7"><em class="calibre8">Pipes with flexible or muscular walls.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre9"><em class="calibre8">Heart.</em></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre7"><em class="calibre8">Pump.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre9"><em class="calibre8">Liver, spleen, kidneys.</em></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre7"><em class="calibre8">Filters.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre9"><em class="calibre8">Nerves. Neurons.</em></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre7"><em class="calibre8">Wires. Logic gates.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre9"><em class="calibre8">Cells.</em></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre7"><em class="calibre8">Microscopic machines.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre7">It wasn't enough, he knew. He pushed further.</p>
      <p class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre9"><em class="calibre8">Life.</em></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre7"><em class="calibre8">Self-replicating and self-organising automata. Complexity
      from simplicity.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre9"><em class="calibre8">Id. Individuality.</em></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre7"><em class="calibre8">Noise. Muddy signals. Probabilistic fluctuations.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre9"><em class="calibre8">Ego, self.</em></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre7"><em class="calibre8">Recursion. Self-referential fitness mechanisms.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre9"><em class="calibre8">Super-ego. Rationality.</em></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre7">He paused, slowed by the cognitive dissonance of the thought,
      but pushed onwards.</p>
      <p class="calibre7"><em class="calibre8">Weighted reflexes. Aggregate external phenomena. Even more
      deterministic than the rest.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre7">The wand grew brighter, ribbons of light coiled around the
      length, twisting impossibly through invisible dimensions.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">There was still something missing. His eyes searched her
      motionless face, scoured her features, but could not find the key.
      The power in his wandtip pulsed and threatened to escape. Confusion
      was detected, and a well-trained pathway turned the anaysis
      inward.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">A specific group of neurons fired and caused his lips to twitch
      upwards.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">What do you think you know, and why do you think you know
      it?</p>
      <p class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre9"><em class="calibre8">The Hermione he imagined.</em></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre7"><em class="calibre8">Mental model of reality. Flawed. The map is not the
      territory.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre7">This wasn't transfiguration, partial or otherwise. He wasn't
      changing a thing that was into something he imagined. He was simply
      returning something broken to an earlier state. He looked at her
      and saw her. A pattern, no more and no less than any other.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">The light expanded, spreading across the floor like liquid.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre6"/>
      <p class="calibre7">The disciplinarian blinked as a glittering corona of light
      flowed out from behind the closed door. The walls and floor turned
      to shimmering gold, under her feet and behind her back.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">She closed her eyes and prayed her trust had been well
      placed.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre6"/>
      <p class="calibre7">An old man stood in a hidden room before hundreds of broken
      wands, lost in thoughts long trodden.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">Downstairs a phoenix cocked its head in interest as several
      instruments that spun and twirled began to glow.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre6"/>
      <p class="calibre7">Moments before the light reached him, a being of many masks
      realised its mistake, and Merlin's.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">He blurred into motion, all pretenses falling. Cursed fire
      consumed millenia old stones and diminished his body alike.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre6"/>
      <p class="calibre7">The world <em class="calibre8">skipped</em> and Harry was a foot to the left,
      silhouetted against a stone ceiling where only an eyeblink before
      there had been the open cloudless sky. Her eyes struggled to adjust
      to the low flickering light of the magical torches.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">Her mind still worked, and it told her the pain was gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">She flexed her toes, and heard the sheet that had been draped
      over her rustle in response.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">She narrowed her eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">"What did you <em class="calibre8">do</em>, Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre7">A wry smile crossed his face, although it stopped short of his
      glistening eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">"The only thing I could, Hermione."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre6"/>
      <p class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre9">AN:</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre7">I have edited the story a little to make the spell and some of
      Harry's thought process more explicit. The spell was never meant to
      be ambiguous, this is Reparo 2.0, where the fixus inanimatus
      objectus spell can extend to all things if the caster understands
      reality deeply enough.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">The challenge for readers here, as per the HPMOR style, is to
      consider the implications. What happens next? Has Harry created a
      safe form of resurrection, unlocked the path to godhood or
      fulfilled the Divination teacher's prophecy, and if so, how? What
      will Quirrel do when he reaches the room and finds Hermione alive?
      If he intends harm, can Harry stop him?</p>
      <p class="calibre7">The story is complete for now, although there are several
      alternate endings in my head. If anyone guesses them correctly I
      will write each one up.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
