<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>28. Repairing Ignorance - Repairing Ignorance Chapter 2, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="28. Repairing Ignorance"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 2: Addendum</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre9">Addendum to Repairing Ignorance:</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre7">Regarding the science in this story, I recommend watching the
      TED talk by Dan Ariely "Are we in control of our own decisions?" I
      would link but not sure if that is frowned upon here. I couldn't
      explain it fully in the text because most of behavioural economics,
      and Dan Ariely in particular, do not exist in the HP timeline yet!
      Of course Dan Kahneman and Amos Tversky had already laid the
      groundwork with the referenced concept of framing, which formed
      part of the Prospect Theory. To explain a little further
      though:</p>
      <p class="calibre7">The environment a person is in defines their decision space and
      can even make up their minds for them. The classic example is that
      in countries with similar culture, an opt in system of organ
      donation results in massively fewer organs donated than an opt out
      system. The paper to read is called "Do defaults save lives?",
      which can be found with a simple Google search.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">The surprising thing is in each case the citizens feel
      rationally justified in their decisions, and can even explain
      <em class="calibre8">why</em> they came to them, when in reality the person who made
      the form at the DMV made their decision for them. If they lived
      next door in the next country, they would make a different
      choice.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">The implications are far reaching. How do you view crime if a
      person can be put in a situation where the majority of people would
      feel justified in breaking the law? How about someone being
      successful, if they were in a situation that made the choices to
      achieve success easy?</p>
      <p class="calibre7">Think about how the Stanford prison experiment fits in. Normal
      people end up brutalizing their classmates because of the situation
      alone. Think about the Nazis, which in many ways is the origin of
      modern psychology, as scientists tried to understand how normal
      people could commit such terrible acts.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">This understanding of the role of the environment redirects
      blame and credit away from individuals and onto systems. The
      environment is something a society can control, so a society should
      be held responsible for the ups and downs, rather than looking at
      each individual action in a vacuum. Each individual still makes a
      choice to differing extents, but given the right situation anyone
      will change their position. Like Harry here, risking it all because
      he had no other option. The Defense Professor would hold him
      responsible, but should he? Is the society that enforces ignorance
      not at least partially to blame?</p>
      <p class="calibre7">To quote Dan Ariely from the last line of the TED talk I
      mentioned -</p>
      <p class="calibre7">"Are we Superman? Or are we Homer Simpson?</p>
      <p class="calibre7">When it comes to building the physical world, we kind of
      understand our limitations. We build steps. And we build
      [computers] that not everybody can use obviously. (Laughter) We
      understand our limitations,and we build around it. But for some
      reason when it comes to the mental world, when we design things
      like healthcare and retirement and stockmarkets, we somehow forget
      the idea that we are limited. I think that if we understood our
      cognitive limitations in the same way that we understand our
      physical limitations, even though they don't stare us in the face
      in the same way, we could design a better world. And that, I think,
      is the hope of this thing (behavioural economics)."</p>
      <p class="calibre7">Thanks for reading.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
