<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>16. Depart Azkaban - Depart Azkaban Chapter 1: A Different Choice, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="16. Depart Azkaban"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
    
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1: A Different Choice</h1>
      
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Notes:</strong> The start of this chapter is
      copied directly from LessWrong's "Harry Potter and the Methods of
      Rationality", chapter 81 (s/5782108/81/). The transition from
      LessWrong's words to my own is sharp, and is intended to pass
      unnoticed. I am merely exploring the consequences of one decision
      being made differently, and otherwise being as faithful as I can to
      LessWrong's story.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">And Harry knew, then, as he looked at the red-golden bird, what
      he had to do as well. It should have been obvious from the
      beginning, that solution.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then I too will do what I must," Harry said up to Dumbledore,
      as though the two of them stood alone in the room. "You do realize
      that, don't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard shook his trembling head. "You will change your
      mind when you are older -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not talking about that," Harry said, his voice still
      strange in his own ears. "I mean that I will not allow Hermione
      Granger to be eaten by Dementors under any circumstances. Period.
      Regardless of what any law says, and no matter what I have to do to
      stop it. Do I still need to spell it out?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A strange male voice spoke from somewhere far away, "Be sure
      that the girl is taken directly to Azkaban, and put under extra
      guard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry waited, staring at the old wizard, and then spoke again.
      "I will go to Azkaban," Harry said to the old wizard, as though
      they stood alone in the world, "before Hermione can be taken there,
      and start snapping my fingers. It may cost me my life, but by the
      time she gets there, there won't be an Azkaban anymore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some members of the Wizengamot gasped in surprise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then a greater number started laughing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How would you even get there, little boy?" someone said, from
      among those who were laughing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have my ways of going places," said the boy's distant voice.
      Harry kept his eyes on Dumbledore, on the old wizard staring at him
      in shock. Harry didn't look directly at Fawkes, didn't give his
      plan away; but in his mind he prepared to summon the phoenix to
      transport him, prepared to fill his mind with light and fury, to
      call for the fire-bird with all his might, he might have to do it
      upon the instant if Dumbledore pointed his wand -</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Would you truly?" the old wizard said to Harry, also as if the
      two of them stood alone in the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The room went silent again as everyone stared in shock at the
      Chief Warlock of the Wizengamot, who seemed to be taking the mad
      threat completely seriously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard's eyes were locked only on Harry. "Would you risk
      everything - everything - only for her?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Harry said back in reply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">That's the wrong answer, you know,</em> said Slytherin.
      <em class="calibre9">Seriously.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">But it's the true answer.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You will not see reason?" said the old wizard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Apparently not," Harry said back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The gazes stayed locked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is terrible folly," said the old wizard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am aware of this," answered the hero. "Now get out of my
      way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Strange light glinted in the ancient blue eyes. "No, Harry
      Potter. I cannot allow you to go into debt to Lucius Malfoy, and I
      will not allow you to attack Azkaban. You will not be able to reach
      Azkaban as you intend; there are restraints of which you are
      unaware. I truly am sorry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stared at the old wizard, thinking desperately. So Fawkes
      was ruled out, probably by the same spell which prevented the bird
      of light from screaming at the Wizengamot. Harry had no further
      options – only an overwhelming but impotent desire to be in
      Azkaban. Hoping against hope, he turned to Fawkes anyway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fawkes stirred, but was restrained by whatever magic the wizards
      had placed on him. As he stirred, however, a patch of air near
      Harry's left hand flickered and <em class="calibre9">another</em> creature of living
      fire appeared, blazing brighter than Harry had ever seen of
      Fawkes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had only a split-second to react – the Hall at large was
      incoherent uproar, but Dumbledore was already pointing his wand and
      McGonagall was reaching for her own. As Harry tried to gather his
      wits, his left hand was already reaching towards the furious golden
      light; a moment later, boy and bird were gone.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry felt the <em class="calibre9">wrongness</em> the instant he flickered back
      into existence, knew it even through the phoenix-warmth suffusing
      his body. He knew where he was and why, even before his eyes
      registered the voids around him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Beyond those voids, three blank stone walls loomed high above
      him. He noted fleetingly that his hole had been repaired. Far above
      him, the triangle of sky visible was an incongruously bright and
      untroubled blue. Beneath his feet was a soft powdery soil, akin to
      sifted ashes. Dozens of voids thronged around him, even as his
      fingers began a precise and well-rehearsed sequence of movements on
      his wand. He saw that the voids were retreating, driven away by the
      resolve which had summoned the phoenix. He wondered briefly whether
      they were also afraid of the phoenix, if "afraid" even made sense
      in describing Dementors. Then his fingers finished their
      complicated movements, and he brandished his wand. There was no
      need now to censor any thoughts; his thought was rejection of
      death, and this time he could open the floodgates and pour himself
      out and do it <em class="calibre9">now</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre9">Expecto Patronum!"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The shining humanoid leapt from Harry's wand, unbearably bright
      within the instant. Harry turned away and closed his eyes, and in
      his mind he sank the wells deeper and deeper inside himself. In a
      sense he had forgotten that he was in Azkaban to destroy a finite
      number of Dementors; his task was to spend himself and destroy
      Death itself, and in that task there was no room for restraint or
      half-measures. Even turned away, even through closed eyelids, he
      felt the heat in his eyes as the incandescent inferno burned his
      life-force away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The boy stood still, a tiny figure in a pose which would have
      looked dramatic in another time and place. Here and now it was a
      mere speck within the towering edifice of Azkaban, no more than a
      hint of a silhouette within the searing light of the absolute
      Patronus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Far above, the iron calm of a hundred years shattered as Bahry
      One-Hand stared slack-jawed down into the Pit. He couldn't see the
      Patronus clearly or Harry at all, not at this distance, but he
      recognised Patronus light, and he couldn't begin to understand how
      it could be brighter than the midday sun above him. Turning his
      aching eyes away from the light, he missed the arrival of Fawkes
      the phoenix with Albus Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fawkes had flickered into existence some 50 metres above the
      bottom of the pit, high enough to be clear of the Dementors.
      Dumbledore, suspended in mid-air by this bird on his shoulder,
      stared downward in shock and utter confusion – at first he saw only
      an impossible brightness of Patronus fire, bright like the heart of
      a nuclear explosion. It took a few seconds for his eyes to find
      Harry, that faint mote lost in the impossible silver fire. Then,
      even as Dumbledore discerned the faint shadow, the light flicked
      out so abruptly that his eyes saw only after-images and
      darkness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As his sight cleared, Albus saw the tiny figure lying motionless
      in the dirt. He saw the wings of golden fire spread over the boy's
      face. Albus and Fawkes dropped rapidly, landing before the unmoving
      form of Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With rapid sweeps of his dread wand, the old man cast a wordless
      flurry of charms to determine the boy's health: he was alive, thank
      Merlin, and apparently not harmed in any way beyond normal
      exhaustion. Despite a prolific career in magical research, despite
      much careful thought since the incident with the Dementor at
      Hogwarts, Albus Dumbledore still had absolutely no idea how a
      first-year could possibly wield (let alone <em class="calibre9">invent</em>) such
      potent magicks. Who was this child, that he could so abruptly
      destroy almost every Dementor in Magical Britain? And at that
      thought, his attention turned suddenly to the political
      implications - this would radically change the political realities
      in the Wizengamot and beyond, but how?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">These calculations were interrupted by the Bahry One-Hand, voice
      steady once more as he brought his broomstick down to ground level.
      "What in Merlin's name just happened?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, Bahry. It appears that Harry Potter has just destroyed
      every Dementor in Azkaban. And before you ask - no, I have not the
      faintest idea how."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can't be serious."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Deadly serious, I'm afraid. He threatened it when his friend
      was sentenced to be sent here, and he seems to have carried out his
      threat. I tried to stop him, but I failed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bahry stared searchingly at Dumbledore for a long moment, then
      yanked the mirror off his belt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mike, tell Director Bones that the Dementors are all gone. The
      Boy-Who-Lived is lying on the ground, and he has a phoenix."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Auror Li passed on the message, then unlocked and activated the
      Vanishing cabinet - however Director Bones was going to handle this
      situation, there was no way that she wouldn't start by flooding
      Azkaban with Aurors. Sure enough, Amelia Bones immediately strode
      out of the Cabinet with the first part of a substantial fighting
      force - trio after trio followed on her heels, rapidly filling the
      command room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A1, B1, C1 trios, I want a double sweep of the spirals. Go down
      fast, come back up as slowly as you need to. Stay in contact with
      each other and with Auror Li, and report anything suspicious. A2,
      B2, C2 trios - secure the top of each spiral. Broomstick trios 1, 2
      and 3, aerial surveillance of the whole place. Other trios, stay
      with me. Li, you're in charge of communications - stay here, stay
      in contact with everyone, and tell me anything I need to hear.
      McCusker, you're with Li. All of you, we lost Bellatrix Black last
      time. This time we could lose all of them - today we're looking at
      a mass breakout. Go!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nine trios scattered, all faces grim and all wands out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Li, McCusker - there will be more of my people coming through
      the Cabinet. They're to stay in the command room as reserve forces.
      Broomstick trios 4 and 5, with me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Director Bones had already mounted her broomstick, and now she
      flew out the window and dived down to the bottom of the Pit,
      broomstick trios 4 and 5 catching up there a moment later and
      turning outwards to cover the entire area for potential
      threats.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Albus. Bahry. What's going on?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A moment of silence, and then Albus spoke. "When I arrived, I
      could see nothing except an impossibly bright Patronus charm. When
      it vanished a few seconds later, Mr Potter was on the ground, and I
      could see no Dementors. It appears that I was correct to take him
      seriously in his threat to destroy Azkaban, although I was still
      unable to prevent him from actually carrying out that threat.
      Beyond that I know nothing, I'm afraid."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia Bones glanced at the crumpled cloaks, dozens of them,
      scattered around on the dead soil, and decided to assume for now
      that the Dementors really had been destroyed - impossible, of
      course, but seemingly true nonetheless. She turned to the small boy
      lying unconscious on the ground, his face covered by the phoenix's
      wings.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The usual charms revealed no damage beyond normal exhaustion,"
      Albus added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She turned to him. "Is it safe to wake him now, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I believe so, yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">"Innervate."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry opened his eyes, and the phoenix moved its wings away from
      his face. He glanced up at the three adults watching him, craned
      his neck to look around at the bare earth with its crumpled cloaks,
      and then smiled. "I did it, didn't I? The only Dementor left in
      Magical Britain is the one in the Hall of the Wizengamot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus was uncertain and Bahry frankly confused, so it was Amelia
      who spoke. "Mr Potter, do you confirm that you have destroyed
      Azkaban's Dementors?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, that is correct."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Was it your intention, or is it now your intention, to
      instigate a mass breakout from Azkaban?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry paused, then shook his head slightly as he sat up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. My primary goal, as stated before you and the entire
      Wizengamot, was to prevent Hermione Granger from being exposed to
      the Dementors of Azkaban. My secondary goal was to end the ongoing
      torture of prisoners by said Dementors. Actually freeing the
      prisoners right now would be highly irresponsible, although I would
      like to see all current sentences reconsidered in light of time
      already served under ceaseless torture. I trust that the decision
      to send a child to Azkaban has opened your mind to the possibility
      that some sentences meted out by our justice system might not be
      entirely just."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia stared into the boy's face, searching for deceit but
      finding none. She turned to Dumbledore. "Do you believe him,
      Albus?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. He may play games with words at times, but I have never
      yet known him to tell a direct lie. That is why I took his threat
      seriously, and I imagine it is why he has answered you so precisely
      and unambiguously."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Out of the corner of her eye, Amelia saw Harry nod slightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She pulled the mirror from her belt. "Li, what news?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sweep teams are almost at the bottom, broomstick trios are
      flying circuits, and everyone else is in position. No trouble
      anywhere, nothing out of the ordinary except that we're in Azkaban
      without Patronuses and we're all fine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tell the sweep teams they can relax a bit on their way back up,
      and call the broomstick trios in. The Dementors are gone and Harry
      Potter is claiming responsibility, but he insists he isn't trying
      to let the prisoners out. It seems we don't face a mass breakout
      today. Oh, and tell the Ministry that we don't need any more
      reinforcements."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Will do, Director."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She turned back to Harry as he finished standing up, red-yellow
      bird settled serenely on his shoulder. "Do you have any idea what
      laws you've just broken?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He stared at her. "Dementors are the foulest creatures known to
      me. They should not exist. I understand that the arrangement at
      Azkaban made political sense given that Dementors existed and
      couldn't be destroyed, although I strongly disapprove of that
      arrangement. I do not understand, Director Bones, how any decent
      human being could sincerely lament the destruction of Dementors,
      the healing of these wounds in the world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I agree with you, Mr Potter. The laws do exist, however, and
      you would be wise to consider them. As you are of a noble House,
      the matter will be brought before the Wizengamot. And as you have
      seen, the Wizengamot as a whole is no ally to you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"With all due respect, Director Bones, I think I am far safer
      than that. The Boy-Who-Lived, symbol and champion of the Light, has
      just destroyed a large number of Dementors, symbols of Darkness.
      Not even Lucius Malfoy and his half-tame Wizengamot can touch me
      for that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She watched his face for a moment longer, and then visibly
      relaxed. "Thank you, Mr Potter. You are of course correct on all
      points, and I now trust that you are telling the truth about your
      intentions. I apologise for interrogating you like this in your
      weakened state, but I had to be sure that there would be no
      breakout attempt."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled faintly but said nothing, turning instead to the
      flaming bird on his shoulder. "Are you my phoenix?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Caw!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What should I call you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A pause, a quizzical are-you-stupid look from that glorious
      creature, and Harry blushed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"OK, stupid question, but I still need to call you something.
      I'll call you Bentham if you don't mind, for another prison
      reformer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The bird nodded slightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Done, then. Hello Bentham, and thank you. Thank you so
      much."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore raised an eyebrow at this, but forbore to comment. On
      his shoulder, Fawkes nodded companionably to Bentham.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
