<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>16. Depart Azkaban - Depart Azkaban Chapter 10: Morality, part 2, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="16. Depart Azkaban"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s10" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 10: Morality, Pt 2</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Even deep in the peace of the phoenix, Hermione's mind was
      skittering and scrambling. Her moral certainty was crumbling within
      her, her whole self-concept was in question, and before Bentham
      started singing she'd been in more pain than ever before except for
      the trial (and that really shouldn't count). So here, at what was
      obviously a major turning point in her life, why on earth was her
      <em class="calibre9">stupid</em> brain determined to think about <em class="calibre9">boys?</em>
      Well, a boy, anyway. She knew all about priorities, for crying out
      loud - she was always really good at that - but somehow it just
      didn't work here. She gave a sort of a mental shrug and went with
      it, thankful to Bentham for making this so much easier than it
      might have been.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the abstract, it was obvious that Harry was the only boy for
      her. She'd been sure almost since she met him that it was him or no
      one, though the "no one" option still couldn't be ruled out - after
      all, that had been her apparent fate until she met Harry. She
      hadn't even been sure she would ever have proper friends, let alone
      a boyfriend. Now she was suddenly very sure that she wanted Harry
      as a boyfriend, but that really didn't help - it just meant that
      instead of worrying about what she really wanted, she was now
      terrified about what Harry might or might not want. These feelings
      (and the awkward physical aspects of puberty) were so new to her,
      and Harry was nearly a year younger than her - was he even
      physically capable of feeling this way about her? Maybe he wasn't
      yet, and by saying something now she'd spook him and drive him away
      and lose her chance for when he did get to that point. Maybe he
      was, but he just didn't see her that way - maybe to him she was
      just the sister he never had, and he wanted someone else
      completely, someone sweet and meek like Hannah Abbott. No, that
      didn't make sense. But maybe he wanted someone who was older and
      knew more. Maybe he wanted a warrior noble like Tracey or Daphne,
      or a girl with mysterious superpowers like Susan, or even a
      sparkling socialite like Lavender or Parvati. Maybe he didn't want
      anyone at all and he never would, not like that. Maybe he liked
      <em class="calibre9">boys.</em> She had no idea, no way of knowing, and yet she
      needed to know.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Realistically, she knew she had a better chance than anyone
      else. If he was interested in romance at all yet, and if he liked
      girls, then she was probably his first choice. But that suddenly
      didn't seem like a very solid hope. She was suddenly painfully
      aware of just how much Harry really meant to her, and how much she
      probably meant to him. The Cloak, for a start - would he really
      have just handed that over to anyone else? And now the Vow - she
      knew he only gave it to get concessions from Dumbledore, but the
      fact remained that he had magically bound himself to her in a way
      that even married couples weren't bound. She was starting to
      realise how important Harry was likely to be to the world in
      general, Wizarding and non-Wizarding, and this could seriously
      damage that. Forget about her own feelings - what if she drove him
      away by saying the wrong thing or wanting the wrong thing, and then
      because of that he couldn't do what he had to do, and so the world
      suffered? Her stupid hormones could doom the world!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An amused smile flitted across her face, unseen, and she
      wrenched her thoughts back to the realms of the plausible and
      commonsensical. Harry might or might not be ready for such things,
      and he might or might not choose her when he was ready, but the
      worst she could really do by asking would be to cause a bit of
      awkwardness that they'd have to deal with. He couldn't decide he
      didn't even want her as a friend anymore - he was too deeply
      committed to her for that, even without the Vow. And they could
      always talk, and sort things out that way - she'd confirmed that to
      herself after the incident with those idiot Ravenclaw upper-years
      and their nonsensical ideas about romance. One way or another, it
      would be alright. She turned resolutely towards Harry to get all
      this off her chest.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry, meanwhile, had conflict enough swirling in his own head.
      He'd never been much for physical contact, no matter what
      McGonagall had said in Diagon Alley, but this physical closeness
      with Hermione felt unexpectedly pleasant and comfortable. As usual
      when surprised by anything, his first impulse was to update the
      expectations which had failed to predict this. His second impulse,
      close on the heels of the first, was to assert priorities and shut
      down any romantic thoughts: his best-and-possibly-only friend was
      in the middle of a painful and highly significant moral crisis, and
      he couldn't let himself be distracted by trivial things. Besides,
      he wasn't physically old enough to actually be having those sorts
      of feelings - he must just be imagining them, based on what his
      reading had led him to expect. With that settled, he turned his
      attention to the issue at hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had studied moral philosophy, at least somewhat. He had,
      at least in theory, settled on preference utilitarianism - loosely
      speaking, satisfying the preferences of as many moral agents as
      possible. Even before he switched to that from his earlier and more
      naive position of hedonic utilitarianism, which in retrospect bore
      a worrying resemblance to Grindelwald's "Greater Good", Harry had
      realised that for practical purposes he really had to have cached
      rules by which to live his daily life. Now, of course, he was
      gradually coming to realise the extent to which most of his choices
      in daily life were actually driven by instinct and emotion rather
      than those rules anyway, but he knew he wasn't yet ready to deal
      with that properly. No matter. All of this tumbled through his
      head, coupled with the horrified realisation of just what Hermione
      must be going through. What for him had been a process of
      incremental realisation and refinement over a period of years, for
      her was being compressed into a single, world-smashing, moral
      crisis. She had thought a lot about doing the right thing, he knew,
      and had even recently given some thought to which rules were best,
      but to his knowledge she had never seriously considered the
      possibility that a rigid set of rules might not be the best
      approach to morality. She had even thought that he was going evil,
      just because he didn't follow her rule-based approach to morality.
      Admittedly she'd been right about that, but not for the reason
      she'd thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry gazed blankly at the stone floor in front of his feet,
      letting himself feel the full torment of Hermione's position as he
      imagined it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Finally he felt Hermione move, and he turned to her as she
      turned to him. He opened his mouth to speak, not even sure what to
      say, but she spoke first.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, do you like me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This he could deal with. "Hermione, of course I like you. You're
      the most moral person I know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She paused for a moment, then ploughed on. "Um... That's... not
      quite what I meant. Harry... You're my best friend. You're my first
      friend. I think we're probably going to save the world together,
      one of these days. I... I just need you to know that... That you're
      more than a friend to me. Um... I don't know how you feel, I don't
      even know whether you're old enough to care about that sort of
      thing, and even if you are I don't know if you're even into girls
      at all rather than boys, and for all I know you could be in love
      with Tracey Davis or anyone, and I don't know, and I know I'm
      making an idiot of myself, and... Well, I had to tell you. Please
      don't hate me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stared at her, mouth hanging open slightly. Long moments
      passed in awkward, terrified silence. Finally he spoke.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um... Hermione. Just warning you up front, I have no idea how
      to deal with this. I am a very long way out of my depth right now,
      so please forgive me if any of this comes out wrong. I, um. First,
      to be clear, I do like you. You're my best friend, my first friend,
      and quite possibly still my only real friend. No matter what
      happens, I definitely want you around. I mean, I just swore an
      Unbreakable Vow binding me to your moral judgement. We're sitting
      here right now in my brand-new still-under-construction secret
      hideaway, which is and will remain a complete secret from
      absolutely everyone who is not currently sitting here. Um... So,
      yeah, I trust you more than I have ever trusted anyone else. I
      trust you completely, in a way that I never thought I would trust
      anyone at all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry paused, but Hermione said nothing. After a few moments, he
      went on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As for the other thing... Hermione, I'm eleven years old. I
      know you're a bit older than me, and maybe you've gone through some
      changes that I haven't, but I shouldn't be physically capable of
      falling in love yet. That being said, if I could right now, I think
      it would definitely be you. I mean, I know all this stuff about how
      I couldn't possibly really be feeling these things yet, but I guess
      I shouldn't underestimate my imagination, because I really do feel
      like I imagine I would if I actually were old enough, and if I
      actually were falling in love with you. Um."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was another silence, since even at only twelve years of
      age Hermione was smart enough to keep her mouth shut and just let
      Harry talk himself around - not for nothing was she the brightest
      witch of her generation. Eventually Harry went on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I mean, I don't actually think girls are icky, but then I never
      really did see the point of that - people are just people, and I
      try to appreciate the ones who are less stupid than the rest. I
      still don't see the point of kissing, I honestly don't - it just
      seems awkward and messy - but I think I've finally realised how
      good hugs are. Um... I <em class="calibre9">think</em> that might count as me
      growing up? Maybe? I don't know. I'm definitely in favour of hugs
      now, though, at least with you. Um... So I don't know what that
      makes us, but I think there is an 'us'. I don't think anyone would
      take us seriously as boyfriend and girlfriend anyway, not at our
      age, so we're probably better off not saying anything about it. But
      I'm fine with us thinking of ourselves that way, if you like - it's
      not as if there's anyone else I'm interested in like this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um... Am I making any sense? Am I just getting myself into
      trouble here? I really hadn't given this any thought, so this is
      all completely off the top of my head, and I know I don't always do
      very well with that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione snuggled into him, secure once more. "I think
      everything's OK."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry let out a breath he hadn't known he was holding, feeling
      the tension leave his shoulders - Bentham was wonderful, and Harry
      wasn't at all sure he could have managed this without phoenix calm,
      but apparently there were limits even there.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">After a long and much more comfortable silence, Bentham opened
      his wings and flew across the cavern. Harry reluctantly
      disentangled himself from Hermione and stood up, reaching down to
      help her up before stretching after so long on cold stone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione, once she'd done her own stretching, turned to Harry.
      "I think perhaps I should sleep on those moral questions - they're
      just a bit too much right now. Can we talk about something else
      now, and talk about this tomorrow instead?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course we can - I know this isn't easy for you. I had years
      to work through the stuff that's pretty much all being dumped on
      you right now, and even for me it wasn't always easy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione hugged Harry in thanks, reveling in the sheer novelty
      of the physical contact. "So what now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He glanced at his watch, and grinned. "We have quite a bit of
      time up our sleeves - actually, our earlier selves are on the other
      side of that wall right now. Anyway, we've got about an hour before
      we have to go back. Do you want to work on this place? It's going
      to take a while, but I want it to be a comfortable place to live
      long-term if necessary. I also want it to be as secure as we can
      make it. I'm already planning another hideout that we'll make in
      the future, one that'll be much more secure even than this, but
      this one's important for now, plus it'll teach us everything we
      need to know for the longer-term one. And, y'know, it can't hurt to
      have a spare."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean this place is a <em class="calibre9">practice piece?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grinned. "Among other things, yes. So, Miss
      Brightest-Witch-Of-Her-Generation, tell me what it needs and how
      we're going to make it all happen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione was caught flat-footed for a moment, but only a moment,
      before her all-conquering brain kicked into gear - if Harry wanted
      her to design him a hideout, then she'd design him a hideout. And
      what's more, she'd design a hideout that she wouldn't mind living
      in for a long time herself - maybe it was Harry's
      pessimism-as-a-virtue finally affecting her, but she suspected
      she'd be spending a lot of time here.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, for a start we'll need a permanent Air-Freshening charm.
      We're safe for now, it takes a long time to use up all the air in a
      space this big, but in the end we'd suffocate and die. We'll need a
      better light, too - my Lumos Maxima won't last forever, and we'll
      want to be able to turn the light on and off anyway. We're wasting
      a lot of space with this ridiculously high ceiling, so we'll
      probably want to split it into two levels, or maybe even three. Can
      you do that with the same trick you used to pull out the chunks of
      stone in the first place? If you just isolate the layer of stone
      under our feet, and get Bentham's help to lift it up and anchor it
      about halfway up... That transfiguration will do that, won't it?
      Oh, and we'll need to strengthen the stone when we do that, or it
      might break. Um... We'll want water, and we don't want to have to
      keep using Aguamenti - I think we can do that with runes, but I'll
      have to look it up. I'll have to look up a lot of things. Um...
      We'll also want a toilet, if we're going to spend much time here.
      Aguamenti runes and vanishing runes should work for that. Actually
      I don't know why Hogwarts doesn't do it like that - according to
      Hogwarts: A History, the toilets flush into the Lake!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry, well aware of modern sanitation and its importance,
      looked appropriately horrified. Hermione went on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But honestly, Harry, we're going to have to plan this properly
      - we can't just dive in and start building it, and expect to end up
      with anything like what we actually wanted. We can't make what we
      want until we figure out what that is. We need pen and paper and
      time to brainstorm together."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked slightly embarrassed. "To be fair, we did need to
      get as far as having a private place to plan the rest."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione nodded, and went on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So I'll think up ideas for this, but then we need to make a
      proper plan before we actually do anything. Are we clear?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, eyes somewhat wild. "Agreed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good. Now, we'll need internal walls of some sort - we can
      probably just use stone for those. That might even make the ceiling
      safe without magic, though we'd strengthen it anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded again, not quite daring to speak. Hermione
      continued, warming to her theme.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The whole cube is what, eight metres? Ten? I say we put all our
      living spaces on the bottom level, and two metres is plenty of
      height for that. Leave the rest as a big space for training or
      whatever - we can add things later if we want to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione became aware that Harry was staring at her in something
      akin to awe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione," he said, "did I ever tell you you're amazing? I was
      expecting a few clever ideas that I could then use in the plan that
      I was going to make for this place, but you actually know what
      you're talking about! Um... Sorry, I didn't mean it like that. But
      I'll help you plan this, not the other way around. I knew you were
      brilliant, I knew about your ridiculously good memory, and I knew
      you'd had perfect marks in basically everything you've ever
      studied, but how on Earth do you know so much about engineering and
      architecture?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione smiled beatifically. "I didn't always live in the house
      that you visited, you know. Mum and Dad built that house, or at
      least they designed it with an architect and had it built. I was
      six, and much too cute for anyone to tell me I couldn't listen to
      all the planning. I ended up talking quite a lot to the architect
      and the engineer, and also some of the builders. I also went and
      read some books, because I was curious."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head slowly. "You read some books. You read some
      books. I am so glad you're on my side."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry pulled pens and a sheaf of paper from his mokeskin pouch -
      God he loved that pouch! - and he and Hermione settled down to
      scribble plans together. It'd all have to stay in the cube, of
      course - people would obviously be suspicious if they saw any of
      this - but this way they could hash out their ideas much more
      clearly and easily than trying to express everything in spoken
      words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By the time Harry's watch jangled to remind them to go, they
      were both sprawled on the floor surrounded by loose sheets of paper
      covered with assorted half-formed scribbles - they were mostly just
      passing ideas back and forth, so anyone else looking at those
      papers would have struggled to understand much.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just before they left, however, Hermione turned to Harry with a
      sad but determined look on her face. "I think you're right. I think
      we have to kill Professor Quirrell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded and put a reassuring hand on her shoulder, and
      Bentham flamed the pair of them to the Great Hall for dinner.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
