<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>16. Depart Azkaban - Depart Azkaban Chapter 13: Also Allowed to be Smart, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="16. Depart Azkaban"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s13" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 13: Also Allowed to be Smart</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">A/N:</strong> Finally figured what should happen next,
      so I've come back to this story. CW: character death.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Safely back in their secret hideaway, Harry and Hermione stood
      in silence for a time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Finally Hermione drew in a deep breath and then released it
      slowly, tremblingly. Her lips twisted into an unaccustomed bitter
      half-grimace, half-smile.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Well, you were definitely right about killing Professor Quirrell.
      Pity we can't actually touch him, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded slowly, looking more tired than anything
      else.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Yeah. Pity, that. Honestly, I'm just glad we're still alive."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione tilted her head to the side slightly, opened her mouth
      to answer him. Suddenly, abruptly, her eyes widened. Her face
      twisted as she gave a gasping sort of half-cry. Her whole body
      shuddered violently, just once, before dropping bonelessly to the
      floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stared in uncomprehending horror for a split-second, but a
      moment later he was running forward with his magical first-aid kit
      already halfway out of his pouch. He pressed two fingers against
      her throat, desperately hoping for a pulse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her skin felt oddly swollen, and slick with sweat that he was
      sure hadn't been there a moment before. As he drew his fingers
      away, he noticed an uncomfortable tingling sensation in his
      fingertips. He held a fingertip to his nose, and sniffed
      cautiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Faint but clear, a sharp smell like dilute vinegar.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The answer seemed to drop into Harry's mind fully-formed,
      terrible and unarguable. Some quantity of a strong acid,
      Transfigured into a tiny ice chip or something and then just
      flicked into Hermione's mouth when her attention was elsewhere.
      Several hours for that Transfigured substance to circulate and
      diffuse through her body, until finally the Transfiguration wore
      off. Whatever quantity of acid, suddenly appearing distributed
      throughout her body - hence the swelling, the sharp sweat, and of
      course the near-instant shutdown of her body.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Idiot. Complete, absolute, idiot. Harry had thought of this
      exact attack, had considered using it himself. He had even spent
      time trying to think of antidotes, and failed. And yet he hadn't
      thought to defend against what was in retrospect a fairly obvious
      threat. And now Hermione was - his brain refused to think it. It
      fought against years of conditioning, and flinched away from the
      painful thought. Too painful. <em class="calibre9">No.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He felt his dark side rising, but it too was utterly inadequate
      to a grief like this. Instead he became simply Harry James
      Potter-Evans-Verres, but a Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres with
      nothing of softness or compromise in him. This was his
      <em class="calibre9">intent-to-kill</em>, his full problem-solving abilities
      unleashed with no censors whatsoever.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Right. Someone had died. Actually died. No more Batman code.
      Time to just end this, as quickly as possible. No filters, no
      censors, just get the job done.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But then, this was Professor Quirrell. How could he possibly
      take down Professor Quirrell? For that matter, how could he even
      find him?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Oh, right. Bentham. First problem solved.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">How to actually get a shot at Quirrell? Good question. No spell,
      because Quirrell was just too fast. Actually, he'd need to be
      completely undetectable in order to have any chance. Right, the
      Cloak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What attack? No offensive spell, of course. Transfiguration?
      High explosives? Muggle explosives didn't really seem up to the
      task, somehow. It'd have to be something that Professor Quirrell
      didn't know about.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Antimatter? Harry had thought about this a few times in the
      past, but had realised quite rapidly that it was a lot less simple
      than people thought. Antimatter wasn't just this one kind of
      <em class="calibre9">stuff</em> with the property <em class="calibre9">goes-boom</em>. It was a
      reflection, an inversion, of normal matter, with all the complexity
      of that. It would only annihilate neatly if it encountered the
      <em class="calibre9">exact right kind</em> of normal matter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Up quarks? Harry wasn't at all sure that that would work, and he
      also wasn't sure what would happen if it did work. So, no.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Electrons? Low mass, but so tiny that they'd be seriously dense
      if you packed them tightly. Physics couldn't do that, but
      Transfiguration could. A cubic centimetre of electrons, densely
      packed, should have plenty of energy to destroy Professor Quirrell.
      And Harry himself, of course, but at this point that was simply a
      necessary sacrifice. Professor Quirrell was now an obvious
      existential threat to humanity, and Harry was humanity's only hope.
      Harry was vaguely aware that this explosion would also kill some
      number of innocent bystanders, but that concern belonged in the
      world of comic-book heroes. In context of an existential threat to
      the entire human race, it was regrettable but still ultimately
      inconsequential that some number of innocent people must die.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now, the repulsive force between electrons grows more than
      linearly with respect to both the number of electrons and their
      closeness to one another. This was a fact known to Harry James
      Potter-Evans-Verres at this time, at least in theory. It did not
      occur to him. Instead, just this once, he did the <em class="calibre9">normal human
      thing</em>; he simply assumed that a <em class="calibre9">cubic centimetre</em> of
      something non-exotic, no matter what that substance might be, could
      not actually pose a threat to humanity simply by existing. And
      electrons were hardly exotic - after all, humans had many whole
      industries based around manipulating electrons very cleverly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was no reason to suppose that Professor Quirrell would
      destroy humanity <em class="calibre9">immediately</em>, nor even that he would
      immediately take effective steps to defend himself against
      discovery by phoenix (if indeed such a defence were even possible).
      This, too, Harry completely failed to think about.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There also existed many other compelling arguments against
      taking immediate drastic action. Precisely none of those arguments
      occurred to Harry; precisely none was <em class="calibre9">allowed</em> to occur to
      him. Reason was indeed the slave of the passions - Hume had been
      right about that - and Harry's emotional reality was at this moment
      still consumed by unthinkable loss.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned to Bentham, held out a hand. The bird flicked onto
      the boy's wrist, silent. Harry swirled the Cloak around them both
      and then thought of Professor Quirrell; a moment later the hideout
      stood empty.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The first thing Harry noticed was a sense of doom. Extremely
      faint, but it was there. Idiot! He really, really should have
      thought of that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell was both inactive and asleep - of course, that
      performance in the Great Hall would have tired him significantly.
      He was sprawled haphazardly on a bed, diagonally opposite Harry in
      a fairly large room. There was very little light, and no sign of
      other people; that was all Harry bothered to notice before focusing
      on the problem at hand. He might not have much time, before
      Professor Quirrell might feel the sense of doom and wake up. That
      could not be allowed to happen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stared at his ice cube and concentrated on his
      Transfiguration, articulating inside his head:<br class="calibre4"/>
      "One cubic centimetre of electrons, packed as tightly as
      possible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An unfamiliar Transfiguration, but not intrinsically a very
      difficult one. Not for Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres. It was done
      in a matter of seconds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A sense of satisfaction approached Harry's mind as he felt the
      Transfiguration beginning to complete, and that was the last he
      knew.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">At the tip of Harry's wand, a cubic centimetre of ice became
      (very briefly) a cubic centimetre of densely-packed electrons.
      Magic didn't care about conservation of mass-energy, so Harry had
      not in fact encountered any difficulty Transfiguring a gram of ice
      into approximately one seventieth the mass of the Moon in
      electrons. He had merely Transfigured a cubic centimetre of one
      substance into a cubic centimetre of another substance, and Magic
      didn't care if the mass had increased by twenty orders of
      magnitude.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That mass would have severely inconvenienced a great many
      people, except that it was completely irrelevant beside the total
      electrical charge on those electrons. Electrons are negatively
      charged, and therefore they repel each other. Harry had
      inadvertently concentrated a ridiculous number of electrons in
      rather a small space, and those electrons therefore proceeded to
      repel each other with correspondingly ridiculous vigour.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry himself simply ceased to exist in any meaningful physical
      sense, as did his Cloak and everything else that he was carrying.
      The grief-stricken Harry-in-the-moment had achieved his desired
      self-destruction, far more effectively than he had ever
      imagined.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell's body was likewise utterly unmade within the
      briefest of instants, as was the room itself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Within one tenth of a millisecond, the entire city had
      essentially dissolved.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another tenth of a millisecond, and the blast radius had reached
      through the Earth's crust and touched the mantle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Several hundred kilometres overhead, the Russian space station
      Mir received approximately two milliseconds of light from the
      ongoing destruction, before it too was destroyed by the expanding
      shell of extremely energetic electrons. The two cosmonauts on board
      knew nothing of this in any case; it was night time in Moscow, and
      Mir's windows were therefore covered. Four milliseconds had now
      elapsed since Harry completed his Transfiguration.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even with a destructive wavefront propagating outwards at half
      the speed of light, things still take time. The Earth's destruction
      took eighty-five milliseconds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Moon outlived Harry and Professor Quirrell by only a few
      seconds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As it happened, Mercury was the nearest extraterrestrial planet;
      it disappeared a little over ten minutes later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another six minutes later, the late Harry James
      Potter-Evans-Verres did indeed begin to "tear apart the very stars
      in heaven". The expanding shell of electrons swept the Sun away
      almost contemptuously, or would have done if emotions applied to
      simple physics. Even at a radius of a hundred and fifty million
      kilometres, the electrons still carried more than enough energy
      density to overpower the star's binding energy. By quite some
      orders of magnitude still, if truth be told.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the next twenty minutes, Venus and then Mars were unmade.
      Each died in darkness, the sun's last rays having outpaced the
      avenging electrons.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">In the end, the local stellar neighborhood at least was saved by
      a fact that the late Minerva McGonagall had impressed upon
      generations of students: Transfiguration is not permanent.
      Somewhere around half a billion kilometres from Earth, that
      dreadful shell of electrons suddenly reverted to ice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That initial gram of ice was now spread out around the inner
      solar system, so for all practical purposes it simply
      disappeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jupiter, the star that never was, escaped destruction by a
      quarter-hour.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Three billion kilometres past Jupiter's orbit, a golden plaque
      drifted peacefully among the stars. Within it lay the last remnant
      of the man once called Quirrell. Far behind it lay the wreckage of
      the inner solar system, the last remnant of Harry James
      Potter-Evans-Verres and his uniquely destructive genius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fin.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">A/N:</strong> This outcome is basically why Quirrell
      suddenly regards Harry as an existential threat after Hermione's
      death in HPMOR, and yeah EY was aware of the
      Transfiguring-electrons idea when he wrote that. I took some ideas
      and formulas from discussions in several different subreddits, but
      in the end I did do all the math myself. A cc of densely-packed
      electrons would contain roughly 1e70 joules of Coulomb energy,
      which is completely ridiculous. I did calculate how long the
      electrons would take to reach things (assuming 0.5c speed),
      including looking up all the actual distances as at April 6th 1992
      (except for the plaque which I had to calculate for myself). And
      yeah that shell of electrons absolutely would tear other stars
      apart if the Transfiguration lasted long enough. Oh, and I'm
      assuming that the packing isn't quite enough to bring the strong
      nuclear force into play. I am not remotely qualified to talk about
      what would happen in that case.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I know that this ending is weird and kinda unsatisfying, but I
      think it makes sense for a meta-fanfic like this one. We already
      have HPMOR itself as a story that follows narrative conventions,
      which leaves this story free to explore the entirely realistic
      prospect of sudden catastrophic failure. I didn't make anyone act
      uncharacteristically in order to bring this about, and I didn't use
      anything that wasn't already available in the story (except for
      Transfiguring electrons instead of up quarks like Harry originally
      wondered about).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sincerest thanks to my beta reader AnimeKitty47, and to everyone
      else who reviewed this story. This was my first attempt at writing
      fanfiction, for that matter it was my first substantial attempt at
      writing fiction of any kind, and honestly I'm just so glad I
      finished it in the end.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Pat</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
