<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>16. Depart Azkaban - Depart Azkaban Chapter 2: A Worried Wizengamot, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="16. Depart Azkaban"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 2: A Worried Wizengamot</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">They arrived together in the Most Ancient Hall of the Wizengamot
      - two phoenixes, two powerful adults, and the one unfathomable
      child. Chief Warlock Albus Dumbledore strode to his podium, Fawkes
      still on his shoulder. Amelia Bones, Director of the Department of
      Magical Law Enforcement, strode to her accustomed seat. And Harry
      James Potter-Evans-Verres, with the phoenix Bentham blazing on his
      shoulder, walked peacefully back to his seat beside Minerva
      McGonagall. For these few seconds, the Hall at large was silent in
      shock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore tapped the podium with the rod of the Hall. "The
      ninetieth session of the two-hundred-and-eighth Wizengamot is
      resumed. Now, we were discussing the debt owed by Hermione Granger
      to House Malfoy. I was refusing to allow Harry Potter to go into
      Lucius Malfoy's debt, and Mr Potter was threatening to destroy
      Azkaban if this chamber voted to send Miss Granger there. I repeat
      that I will not allow Harry Potter to go into Lucius Malfoy's debt.
      Mr Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stood calmly, the peace of the phoenix washing through him
      as he faced the confused-looking instrument of death across the
      chamber from him. "Lord Malfoy, I say once more that I have no
      desire to be your enemy. I also have no desire to consider you my
      enemy. Let the debts pay for one another, but let no money change
      hands between us except the forty Galleons which I owe to your son.
      Let there be friendship once more between House Potter and House
      Malfoy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You tried to turn my son against me. Your friend tried to kill
      him. Do you deny it, boy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do, and I do. Had I intended to turn Draco against you, I
      would never have told him what I did about your love for him. And
      the very idea that Hermione Granger would try to kill him, or
      anyone else for that matter, is absurd. As I said before, we are
      all caught in a plot which was intended to take your son's life.
      You're smarter than that, Lord Malfoy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius Malfoy stared at the boy opposite him. Potter no longer
      seemed cold or angry, and he had somehow summoned a phoenix.
      Certain guesses at the boy's true identity no longer made sense,
      but that raised questions - if the boy wasn't Lucius' old master,
      then where did this power come from? Just who was this boy, and
      what did he want? Harry had disappeared for some minutes and then
      come back, with no explanation given - Lucius suspected that the
      world had changed in those few minutes, though he wasn't quite sure
      how. Had Potter really destroyed Azkaban? That seemed frighteningly
      possible, and in that case the next great power had arrived.
      Dumbledore was involved, of course, but the way they stood and the
      way they spoke told Lucius quite plainly that Harry was now in
      charge. That meddling old fool Dumbledore, the man who for many
      years had been trying to take over the world, was suddenly
      deferring to Harry Potter. This felt like the sort of moment that
      might make or break a life, the sort of moment that a Malfoy
      couldn't afford to handle badly. The boy might be bluffing, it
      might all be a trick, but Lucius' finely-honed instincts told him
      otherwise. The balance had shifted, and House Malfoy must once more
      shift accordingly. He considered challenging the boy for
      information, but decided that such a challenge would probably
      damage his prospects as second-in-command of the new order. And so,
      after a long pause, Lucius smiled at the Boy-Who-Lived.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well, Mr Potter. The debt owed to House Malfoy by Hermione
      Granger is now paid in full, by the debt owed by House Malfoy to
      House Potter. No money need change hands. Let there be friendship
      between House Malfoy and House Potter. And as a token of that
      friendship, please consider that debt of 40 Galleons to be
      settled."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, Lord Malfoy." Harry bowed solemnly to Lucius Malfoy,
      who returned the gesture.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A quiet yet compelling click, and then Dumbledore spoke. "It is
      done. And now, Mr Potter, please tell this chamber what you have
      just done."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Knowing his power in this moment, Harry paused fully half a
      minute to examine the Wizengamot. Throughout this time he stood
      calm and confident, his face perfectly neutral. The government of
      Magical Britain, those august representatives of the noble and most
      ancient Wizengamot, sat in uncomfortable silence. No one tried to
      interrupt him as he memorised faces and considered what to say.
      When he spoke, his voice held an unmistakeable note of command.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lords and Ladies of the Wizengamot, today you sentenced a
      twelve-year-old girl to be tortured to death by the Ministry's
      Dementors in Azkaban. That she was most likely innocent is almost
      irrelevant here - you voted to send a twelve-year-old girl to
      Azkaban, and that shame should follow you to the grave. I have made
      my peace with Lord Malfoy; I bear him no further ill-will. The same
      cannot be said of the others among you who voted to send my friend
      to Azkaban."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry paused, taking in the state of the Wizengamot. They seemed
      nervous, perhaps even terrified, but not yet entirely cowed - some
      among the plum-coloured robes seemed unconvinced, though none so
      confident as to risk actually challenging him in any way. He
      continued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have seen the wisdom and prudence of Lord Malfoy. Who among
      you will follow his example, and make peace with me
      voluntarily?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry paused once more. No one would speak against him, but no
      one dared speak first to save themselves either. The bystander
      effect, of course, and he knew a solution. He could see certain
      family resemblances, and he was slowly matching names with
      faces.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lady Greengrass, some time ago I offered Daphne my protection.
      She declined, as it happened, but fortunately her friend Tracey
      Davis accepted my offer; you've heard that story, I trust. Despite
      this, you voted to send your daughter's friend, my friend Hermione
      Granger, to Azkaban. In this time of grace, here in the Most
      Ancient Hall of the Wizengamot, would you like to apologise?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Many eyebrows shot up at this, but Lady Greengrass was no fool.
      And she was, in any case, rather ashamed of her vote - she was not
      enjoying the intrusion of personal affections into her political
      life.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I apologise, Miss Granger, for voting to send you to Azkaban.
      Please forgive me, and let peace and friendship exist once more
      between House Granger and House Greengrass."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's mouth had been opening and shutting silently through
      all this, but now she managed to speak with surprising composure.
      "I, I accept your apology, Lady Greengrass. Friends."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lady Greengrass now bowed her head towards Harry. "Please
      forgive me, Lord Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Many more eyebrows were raised at this, but Harry was completely
      composed as he inclined his head towards her. "I forgive you, Lady
      Greengrass. Let there be friendship between our Houses."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a close-run thing, Harry knew, but this was enough - one
      by one, a large majority of those who had voted against Hermione
      now apologised both to her and to Harry. And, following the lead of
      Lady Greengrass, every single one of them addressed him as "Lord
      Potter".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When it became clear that the few holdouts weren't going to give
      in immediately, Harry turned to Dumbledore. "Chief Warlock,
      everyone is calling me 'Lord Potter'. I know that House Potter is a
      Noble House, and that I am its last scion. What exactly are the
      restrictions on when I can officially be Lord Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore looked surprised, but only slightly so. "As the last
      scion, you will acquire your title as soon as you come of age.
      Normally that would occur when you turn seventeen, but exceptions
      are possible. A vote in this chamber, for example, could declare
      you legally adult today. Shall I call the vote?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Thank you, Chief Warlock, yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"By show of hands, to recognise Harry Potter as legally adult,
      and legally the Lord Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius Malfoy's hand was in the air immediately, as were all
      hands over on what Harry had thought of as Dumbledore's side of the
      room. The people who had apologised weren't far behind, and by then
      the vote was clear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore spoke once more. "Lord Potter, before the law of
      Magical Britain you are now an adult. You now have full control of
      your vault at Gringott's, and a seat in this chamber. Should you
      have further questions, please feel free to ask me at any time. And
      now, Lord Potter, would you <em class="calibre9">please</em> tell your story?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled. "Thank you, Chief Warlock."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He turned to the Wizengamot at large, speaking especially to
      Lucius Malfoy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When you last saw me, I was disappearing from this very spot.
      As you have all no doubt guessed, from here I was transported
      instantly to Azkaban - to the central pit, in fact. There I used my
      Patronus to destroy every Dementor in Azkaban."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even though they had in theory been expecting this, quite a few
      people gasped. A scar-faced man to Malfoy's right, one of the few
      holdouts against Harry Potter, actually stood up and yelled,
      "Arrest him! Those are national property - he's a traitor for
      destroying them!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore overrode him with a click of that rod. "Lord Jugson,
      once more you are out of line. Dementors were national possessions
      only so long as we had no way to destroy them - now that Lord
      Potter has eliminated them, I think that every sane adult in the
      country will merely breathe a sigh of relief. In any case, this
      chamber will certainly not entertain any suggestion that Lord
      Potter be punished for the tremendous service he has rendered to
      Magical Britain today. And Lord Jugson, if I may speak plainly?
      This young man, now recognised as Lord Potter, has succeeded today
      where Merlin himself tried and failed. As his headmaster I know of
      yet other magicks which he alone can wield, magicks which even I
      cannot comprehend. I know of no malice in him, Lord Jugson, but in
      any case I would suggest that opposing Lord Potter is extremely
      unwise. The world has changed, Lord Jugson. Truly, the world has
      changed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lord Jugson appeared to be struggling with his temper, but
      managed to hold his tongue and retake his seat. Harry
      continued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As I was saying, I destroyed every Dementor in Azkaban. As far
      as I'm aware, that thing 'guarding' Hermione right now is the only
      Dementor in all of Magical Britain. I haven't yet decided whether
      to destroy it also; I am open to suggestions on that point. I'm not
      sure whether anyone actually saw my Patronus, by the way, but Chief
      Warlock Dumbledore and Director Bones can both confirm that there
      are now no Dementors in Azkaban."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Every member of the Wizengamot looked either at Albus Dumbledore
      or at Amelia Bones for confirmation; both of them nodded, and Harry
      went on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was quite a strain for me - I am only eleven years old,
      after all - so afterwards I passed out. When I woke up, I saw lots
      of people but no Dementors. Chief Warlock Dumbledore and Director
      Bones were both there, along with a large number of aurors.
      Director Bones asked me some questions and then scaled back the
      security operation, and then we came back here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry paused, appreciating the confused expressions on the faces
      around the Hall. There were many questions to be asked of him, but
      it seemed that no one could think of any in particular right now.
      He went on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In that discussion with Director Bones, I assured her that I
      was not attempting to break anyone out of Azkaban. However, I do
      want every single prisoner in that hellhole to have their sentence
      reviewed. As I said to Director Bones, I trust that this morning's
      decision has opened your minds to the possibility that some
      sentences are perhaps not entirely just. Given that time spent in
      Azkaban is time spent under ceaseless torture, I feel that time
      already served should count for quite a lot when we reconsider
      those sentences."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No one moved, no one spoke. The Wizengamot was stunned into
      silence, so Harry continued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I call the vote, then. By show of hands, that the sentences of
      all current Azkaban inmates be reviewed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This vote also passed with overwhelming support - these were
      experienced politicians, all of them, and few were foolish enough
      now to fight against such an overwhelming tide. The world had
      shifted, and they all knew it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore now spoke. "Done, then - there will be a review of
      all current Azkaban sentences. Any further business for the
      chamber?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a brief pause to establish that there was apparently no
      such business, Dumbledore continued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There being no further matters to consider, the ninetieth
      session of the two-hundred-and-eighth Wizengamot is now
      concluded."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He tapped his podium three more times with the dark rod, and the
      session was over.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
