<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>16. Depart Azkaban - Depart Azkaban Chapter 3: A New Adult, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="16. Depart Azkaban"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s3" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 3: A New Adult</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">As soon as Dumbledore tapped the podium, Harry was racing down
      the stairs towards Hermione - Bentham on his shoulder sped his
      passage dramatically, but Harry had no attention to spare for
      anything except his best friend. She stood up awkwardly as he
      approached, her face showing blank confusion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, what? Just... what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took her hands gently. "The world just changed, Hermione.
      Everything's pretty much OK now and I suddenly have a lot more
      power, although sooner or later it's all going to go horribly
      wrong, of course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Am I still sworn to you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Technically yes, though I can probably release you if you want
      me to. I promise it's nothing more than a legal technicality to me,
      though, and it might be useful - this legal system is practically
      medieval, and I'm pretty sure a Muggleborn like you has much better
      legal protections if you're in service to a Noble and Most Ancient
      House. Do you want me to release you anyway?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, you're probably right. I'll think it over later, and I'll
      let you know if I change my mind."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, and then they both fell silent. After a few
      moments, Professor McGonagall spoke. "Miss Granger, are you
      OK?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione smiled weakly. "Probably not."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She swayed slightly, and Harry stepped forward to catch her as
      she fell. She felt surprisingly light in his arms, and he
      remembered that he had a phoenix on his shoulder. He shifted his
      grip so that he was cradling her, and then looked up at Professor
      McGonagall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think she's just exhausted, Professor. Should I take her to
      Madam Pomfrey?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall nodded. "Thank you, Mr Potter. I shan't make this an
      order, but I would like to see you in my office sometime soon - I
      think we have some matters to discuss, you and I."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "I was about to ask you the same thing, Professor.
      I'd be happy to speak to you as soon as I've handed Hermione over
      to Madam Pomfrey, if you're free. Would you like a lift back to
      Hogwarts?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She paused a moment at that, before laying a hand on Harry's
      shoulder in assent. A moment later, the four of them flickered away
      from the Great Hall of the Wizengamot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They flared back into existence inside the infirmary at
      Hogwarts, making Madam Pomfrey jump with fright. Before Madam
      Pomfrey could say anything, though, Harry laid Hermione gently on a
      nearby bed and turned to the healer. "I think she's just exhausted,
      but she's had a traumatic morning. I'd greatly appreciate your help
      and expertise, Madam Pomfrey."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She looked faintly indignant, but her immediate concern for a
      patient overrode all other considerations. She rapidly cast a
      series of diagnostic charms on the young witch, before visibly
      relaxing as she turned back towards Harry, Bentham and Professor
      McGonagall. "Indeed, nothing more than exhaustion. I'll give her a
      restorative potion when she wakes up, and then she'll probably be
      ready to leave. Is there anything else I should know about her
      traumatic morning?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head, and then they took their leave of Madam
      Pomfrey and her infirmary. Neither Harry nor Professor McGonagall
      spoke on the way to her office, each taking the other's silence as
      confirmation that this conversation needed to be private. Once they
      were inside her office, Professor McGonagall closed the door and
      cast nine separate spells, of which Harry recognised five from Mr
      Bester and Professor Quirrell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva sat down behind her desk, and Harry perched on the soft
      chair in front of it. Bentham ruffled his feathers slightly, but
      stayed on Harry's shoulder. Harry and Minerva looked at each other
      for a moment, and then Minerva spoke.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, you did a great thing today. No, you did great things.
      You saved Hermione from an unthinkable fate. You seem to have
      turned the Wizengamot wholly to the side of Light in a matter of
      minutes. You emancipated yourself, with all that that entails. And,
      most importantly, you cleansed Azkaban. Thank you, Harry. Thank
      you. I believe the entire wizarding world owes you a debt of
      gratitude - I certainly do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled beatifically, the peace of the phoenix strong
      within him. "Thank you, Professor. Honestly, though, I just did
      what I had to do. I'd die before I'd let Hermione be eaten by
      Dementors. Actually I think I nearly did die, but that's another
      story."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva winced at Harry's brush with death, and her face became
      more serious. She hesitated a moment, and then spoke again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Be careful, Harry - I should be most sorry to lose you, and I
      fear that you do not fully appreciate the dangers that you face.
      And with that... A moment, Mr Potter, if you don't mind. I need to
      think."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She pressed her face into her hands, tendons standing taut in
      her neck. This child in front of her wasn't entirely a child, she
      knew, but he was still her responsibility. And yet it was still a
      child's body that sat so rigid on the chair in front of her, a
      child's face looking at her. This was a first-year, for heaven's
      sake. How could she reconcile that with his belief that he was
      somehow responsible for the entire world? With the Wizengamot's mad
      ruling that Harry should be an adult already? It was all too much
      to ask of a boy, and yet he never complained. He grew angry only
      when she tried to shield him, tried to preserve some hint of
      childhood for him. Clearly he wanted to be an adult, and wanted to
      be treated as such. And, given that his wishes were so clear, had
      he not earned this? Had he not earned the right to be called an
      adult, if he so chose? It would mean breaking her role, stepping
      away from the stern-but-fair disciplinarian she always tried to be.
      It would mean making herself vulnerable. And yet it was, she
      ultimately decided, the right thing to do. And once she had decided
      that, her duty was clear. Not easy - never easy - but clear. She
      raised her head, and deliberately looked Harry Potter full in the
      face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have decided that I should not be treating you like a normal
      student, like a child. I've tried so hard to make you fit my idea
      of what a Hogwarts first-year should be, and I now think that was a
      mistake. For that, Mr Potter, I am sorry. I still expect you to
      treat both me and my fellow staff members with respect, mind you,
      and in public I will still treat you like any other student, but
      here and now I acknowledge you as an adult. In private you may call
      me Minerva if you wish, although I'm afraid I must still insist
      that you address me more formally in public."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, smiling warmly. "Thank you, Minerva. I appreciate
      it - I really do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She smiled back, reassured that she had made the right
      decision.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And Harry, as a gesture... No, wait. I'm terribly sorry, Mr
      Potter, but this requires further thought."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her face returned to her hands, but more calmly this time. She
      deliberately relaxed her shoulders as she considered the problem
      before her. She had wondered, off and on, whether she had done
      right in locking Harry's Time-Turner after that business with the
      Ministry. She had wondered more after Bellatrix Black's escape,
      with the implacable determination that he seemed to have acquired
      then. And now the question of safety loomed large - after what had
      happened to Draco Malfoy, she couldn't very well insist that Harry
      would never need his Time-Turner to escape from mortal peril in
      Hogwarts. She was beginning to appreciate that the future of the
      world might actually depend on Harry Potter, and to fear for that
      future if he didn't survive to adulthood. Thinking that way,
      Ministry restrictions on Time-Turner use suddenly seemed rather
      less important. There would be trouble if anyone found out, of
      course, but that was no longer a good enough reason for her to
      leave one of Harry's major defences crippled. She lifted her head
      once more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, some time ago I locked your Time-Turner in order to
      prevent you from further misusing it. As a gesture of respect and
      of friendship, and in recognition of the dangers you now face and
      the maturity with which you face them, I am willing to remove that
      restriction. I must warn you, however, that the Ministry does track
      their use and misuse. You very nearly lost this last time, Harry.
      If you misuse it again, I will not be able to protect you. You will
      lose your Time-Turner, and you and I will both be punished. Do you
      understand?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's eyebrows had shot up, and there was a distinct element
      of surprise even in his phoenix-calm voice as he replied. "Thank
      you, Minerva. Thank you <em class="calibre9">very</em> much. I understand perfectly,
      and I promise I will be very careful. I realise the personal risk
      you're taking for my sake, and I am profoundly grateful. I have
      nothing equivalent to offer in return, but please tell me anytime I
      can help you with anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He handed over his Time-Turner, and she removed the timed
      locking charm. After a moment's thought, she cast a Charm of
      Unbreakability on the Time-Turner's protective shell before handing
      it back. Harry bowed to her, and she spoke once more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, you are more powerful now, but you are still vulnerable.
      The fate of Magical Britain at the very least depends on your
      actions even now, and it is vitally important that you have good
      advisors. Your intelligence is beyond question, but you are young,
      and you do not yet fully understand many of the areas in which you
      choose to intervene. Miss Granger is sensible and knowledgeable and
      also extremely clever, and you should certainly listen to her, but
      there is much that she also does not yet know. I very much fear
      that you do not yet have adequate counsel available to you, and the
      importance of such counsel could hardly be plainer. Ordinarily I
      would encourage you to seek out the Headmaster for advice, but you
      and I both know that you won't.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've known Albus Dumbledore for many long years, Mr Potter. I
      have worked with him, relaxed with him, fought a war by his side.
      Without him I would not be alive today. Please understand, my
      loyalty to Albus runs deep. I would risk my life to save his, in a
      heartbeat, even now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She looked away from Harry, taking a few deep breaths before she
      looked back to him and continued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For many years I have disagreed with the Headmaster on some
      matters, but I have always trusted that he knew best. Since you
      arrived at Hogwarts, however, I've found myself disagreeing with
      him both more frequently and more sharply. I could not even bear to
      be present when Severus punished Miss Granger for doing what was
      right; I yelled at Albus when I learned what was planned, but he
      refused to listen. And today, this morning, I watched my old friend
      fight to let a twelve-year-old girl be sent to Azkaban. I watched
      you, an eleven-year-old boy, stand against the most powerful wizard
      in Magical Britain and do what was right. And so, Mr Potter, I
      understand why you feel you cannot trust Albus Dumbledore. It
      breaks my heart to say this, but I believe you are right.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, I believe that you hold the future of Magical Britain in
      your hands. You proved this morning that you are willing to do what
      is right, no matter the difficulty. Albus, alas, proved the
      contrary. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva McGonagall leaned forward across her desk, face deadly
      serious. "Harry, from now on I shall place your interests and
      wishes above Albus'. Permanently. You will tell no one of this
      offer. Do you understand?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even floating in the peace of the phoenix, Harry was shocked by
      that. His jaw dropped slightly, and he goggled at Minerva
      McGonagall as he frantically reconsidered his assessment of her.
      After a few seconds, he concluded that she was in any case trying
      to help him - he could puzzle over the reasons later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, Minerva. I... Um. Thank you. I don't really know
      what else to say, but I am so incredibly grateful to you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked down at his feet, his breathing rapid and shallow as
      he fought to control his emotions. This took some time, but
      eventually he raised his head again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I gratefully accept your offer, and I apologise for misjudging
      you in the past."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Apology accepted. Now, Harry, you have placed yourself in
      significant danger, and the attack on Draco Malfoy shows that there
      are other dangers to consider also. You do still have powerful
      enemies in the Wizengamot, particularly in the person of Lord
      Jugson, and I do not believe that you are safe in Hogwarts as
      things currently stand. Do you have any immediate plans to make
      yourself safer?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva set parchment on the desk before her and took up a
      quill, and Harry leaned forward slightly. "That's actually why I
      wanted to see you. I completely agree that Hogwarts isn't safe, and
      I want to make it safe - for me and my friends, of course, but also
      for everyone. I'd very much appreciate your advice and your help
      with that - I think it's time for Hogwarts to take security
      seriously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I already have a Time-Turner, and you've very kindly removed
      the prior restrictions on its use - thanks again for that - but I
      want Time-Turners to give to my friends as well. Er... By 'my
      friends' I mean Hermione, Neville, and Draco. Rest assured that
      I'll talk to each of them first, particularly Draco, before giving
      out such dangerous items - I won't hand anything over unless I'm
      satisfied that it's safe to do so. That being said, I want them as
      well-equipped as we can manage. I already have an invisibility
      cloak, which incidentally is one of the Deathly Hallows, but I want
      my friends to have the best cloaks that money can buy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva broke in at this point, her voice shaking with the shock
      of it. "Your cloak is <em class="calibre9">the</em> Cloak of Invisibility?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded calmly, lips twitching only slightly. "I believe
      so, yes. That's what Dumbledore said when he gave it to me, anyway,
      although technically that was all anonymous and he wrote it in a
      note. Anyway, apparently it was my dad's, and he lent it to
      Dumbledore just before he died."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva was still staring at Harry, trying to understand what it
      meant that he was giving her this information. As if reading that
      in her face, he changed tack slightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The reason I'm telling you this is that you've just given me a
      lot of trust, and I think you deserve the same in return. Plus I
      really need your help, and it'd be pretty stupid for me not to give
      you all the information I can before I ask you for advice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He paused, closing his eyes for a moment as he collected his
      thoughts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That first day in Diagon Alley, I told you that I'd never been
      able to trust my parents to be reasonable. But it's more than that,
      Professor - I've never known an adult that I could trust
      completely, even now. Dumbledore is brilliant and powerful, and I
      think he's spent his whole life trying to do what's right, but I
      can't trust his judgement, and I can't trust him not to get in my
      way when we disagree. Quirrell thinks clearly, more clearly than I
      do even at my best, but I can't trust <em class="calibre9">him</em> to be good.
      You're the only other adult that I know well, and until now I
      thought you were trapped in the role you were playing. So you see,
      I haven't had an adult I could trust. I think you've just
      <em class="calibre9">become</em> an adult that I can trust, and I really really want
      you to know how much that means to me. There are still some things
      that are genuinely too dangerous for me to tell you right now - I'm
      really sorry about that - but I promise you that I will be totally
      open and honest with you about everything that I can without
      breaking oaths."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva stared intently at this strange serious adult in the
      body of a child, beginning to realise that even now she had
      underestimated both him and the situation. She nodded slowly, and
      he continued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Actually, I may even decide that it's worth breaking an oath in
      order to give you information. I'll have to think about that,
      though, so for now I'll stick to safer topics. Anyway, feel free to
      ask me any questions at all in private - the worst that can happen
      is that I say I can't answer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She nodded, and he went on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, I'd covered Time-Turners and invisibility cloaks. I also
      want each of us to have at least one spare wand, properly matched
      to us like our current wands are - money is no object, and wands
      are just too important to risk being without. I also want each of
      us to have a pouch like the one I have. I want each of us to have a
      three-person broomstick to put in that pouch, and a toe-ring
      portkey in case we're kidnapped and taken outside Hogwarts' wards.
      Oh, and I want each of us to have a reliable and effective way to
      call for help. Say a panic button that alerts the rest of us,
      including you, Professor, and gives location and hopefully some
      sort of two-way communications. That's about it for us specifically
      - what do you think?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva looked at Harry a moment longer, then glanced down at
      her parchment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I very much doubt that I can obtain further Time-Turners, I'm
      afraid - they are highly restricted, and I am taking a substantial
      risk even unlocking yours for you. We can ask Filius about
      invisibility cloaks - he will know either where to buy them or how
      to make them, and I trust him. I do not, however, trust Draco
      Malfoy - we shall have to discuss that particular question with
      Filius, since we need his help in that matter anyway. Spare wands
      are an excellent idea, given that you possess great wealth and face
      tremendous danger - if I am to fight alongside you, perhaps I
      should even buy a spare wand myself. Pouches and broomsticks are a
      good idea also, and present no great difficulty. Portkeys may be a
      little more difficult, but I think we can manage - again, I
      strongly recommend that we ask Filius for help. We will certainly
      want his help for this 'panic button' that you suggest - I could
      manage a basic cry for help and perhaps something for location, but
      that would be my limit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Thank you. We can talk more later, just you and
      I, but should we bring Professor Flitwick into this conversation
      now? I'm not ready to trust him the way I'm trusting you, but I do
      trust him to help me make this school safer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva nodded. After a wave of her wand and a pinch of Floo
      powder, she said "Ravenclaw Head of House office" and stuck her
      head into the green flames dancing merrily in the hearth. Harry
      couldn't hear what she said, but a moment later she withdrew her
      head and stood up again. Another moment, and Filius Flitwick spun
      out of the flames. His wand dangled loosely from his fingertips,
      but his eyes were intent as he took in the room in a single
      graceful spin. Suddenly the tiny man didn't seem comical at all to
      Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Flitwick spoke first, glancing at the unknown phoenix on Harry's
      shoulder. "What happened at the trial?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry briefly recounted the events of the morning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a pause to absorb the information, Flitwick addressed
      Harry soberly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well. A remarkable achievement, Mr Potter - another time,
      I shall ask you how you achieved that which Merlin himself could
      not. For now, Minerva said you required my help with some security
      precautions?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, and then relayed to Filius the security
      precautions that he and Minerva had been discussing, including
      Minerva's comments. Filius looked somewhat impressed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excellent thinking. Minerva is correct on all counts, though I
      cannot guarantee invisibility cloaks - they are difficult to make,
      and even more difficult to purchase. You and I must talk at length
      to design those panic buttons, but they should be easy enough for
      me to make once I know exactly what you want."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry inclined his head. "Thank you, Filius."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Filius fixed Harry with a penetrating look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Before any of this, however, you will explain to me why I
      should desire that a group of first-year students have invisibility
      cloaks. Especially, Mr Potter, a group containing Draco
      Malfoy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry met Filius' eyes unflinchingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draco especially needs this protection, Professor. He nearly
      <em class="calibre9">died</em>, and he's an obvious target for future attacks. Not
      only would his loss hurt me, but it would have dramatic effects on
      Lord Malfoy - we saw that this morning. I acknowledge that he could
      misuse an invisibility cloak, but that risk is insignificant
      compared to the risk that he will actually die next time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well, Harry. Just be aware that you bear partial
      responsibility if Mr Malfoy does indeed abuse his cloak. Or
      Hermione or Neville, for that matter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Duly acknowledged, Professor, and thank you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Filius now looked intently into Harry's eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mentioned protecting other students, Harry, beyond just you
      and your friends. What did you have in mind?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the corner of his eye, Harry noticed Minerva leaning forward
      with her elbows on her desk. Filius had absently and wordlessly
      conjured a chair some time ago, and Harry himself was perched once
      more on Minerva's usual visitor chair. He grinned somewhat
      manically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've got a whole new security system planned, which should
      actually make this crazy castle safe for the children who have to
      live in it. And I mean safe against anything, from ordinary
      bullying all the way up to an actual army attacking from inside the
      castle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ambitious. How would you achieve this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, it basically boils down to a stronghold and the means to
      reach it. For a stronghold I suggest the infirmary, since healing
      will be crucial in most emergency scenarios anyway. I say we put
      serious security on it - everything we can think of that won't
      interfere with its day-to-day operations, plus an extra set of
      protections that we can activate if we no longer care about its
      day-to-day operations. We should add a special secure room,
      accessible only via the infirmary, and able to house basically the
      entire population of the castle if necessary. Oh, and that room
      should be accessible to Hogwarts house elves - we'll need food in
      any sustained emergency, and I believe that the kitchens are
      well-protected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So that's the stronghold, anyway. Next we need a ward on the
      castle which automatically teleports injured people to the
      infirmary - I want this to work both by the sudden-damage measure
      that's currently used for the Headmaster's alarms, and by the
      absolute-health test that Quirrell apparently put on Draco Malfoy.
      It might be a good idea to give people an option to refuse the
      teleport, but only if they consciously choose to stay - by default,
      anyone who really needs medical attention should get it. Er... It
      occurs to me that this needs to be specific to known residents of
      Hogwarts - we don't want enemies to be able to get into our
      stronghold just by stubbing a toe or something. Oh, and there also
      needs to be a way for students to activate this teleport manually
      to get themselves out of danger. That needs to be easy for even a
      new first-year to manage, so the power has to come from the
      wards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's the main security system I want, anyway. The only other
      thing is bullying, and I'd like a general policy that any and all
      bullying that's reported from now on will be verified by either
      Veritaserum or a Pensieve - using the victim's memories in either
      case, so the bully can't refuse to cooperate. I don't think this is
      quite as important now as it would have been before Hermione and
      her friends and then that amazing ritual, but I think it's still
      worth doing if we can."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva spoke up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, we can't force victims of bullying to take Veritaserum.
      I won't allow it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good point, Professor - that will have to be strictly
      optional."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva nodded, mollified, and she and Harry both turned to
      Filius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Filius gazed at Harry for a few seconds before speaking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very impressive, Harry - you really have thought this through.
      I think your plan is excellent, but we will most certainly require
      Albus Dumbledore's help. Have you considered how we might persuade
      him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not really, to be honest - I guessed that we might need his
      help, but I just hoped I'd be able to talk him into it. I haven't
      really planned beyond that. The only reason I've been able to give
      you such complete plans is because I was thinking about it between
      the arrest and the trial. I had no idea what was going to happen
      this morning, and I haven't had time to do much thinking with that
      information in mind. At this point I'm just hoping I can talk him
      into it, preferably now before the shock wears off."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva, sitting at her desk with several sheets of notes,
      interjected at this point.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shall we go and see Albus now, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Filius nodded, and the three of them headed for the
      door.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
