<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>16. Depart Azkaban - Depart Azkaban Chapter 6: Rethink, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="16. Depart Azkaban"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s6" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 6: Rethink</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">As the other students filed quietly out of the classroom, mostly
      seeming to be lost in thought, Harry and the phoenixes stayed
      behind with Professor McGonagall. She gave him a questioning look,
      but he flicked his eyes briefly to the departing students and said
      nothing. She nodded faintly and waited.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When the last of the other students had left the room and gone
      out of sight down the corridor, Harry walked over and closed the
      door. As he walked back toward Minerva, she cast a few privacy
      charms - she did so almost absently, Harry noted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks for letting me speak to the class - I think that few
      minutes might really make a difference. Sorry if it ends up getting
      you into trouble with the Headmaster."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva shrugged slightly. "I've made my choice, Mr Potter. All
      I ask is that you don't make me regret it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded seriously. "Of course. Cutting class to go see
      Hermione now wouldn't count as that, would it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva shook her head. "Not at all, young man, not at all. By
      all means go and see your friend - I rather suspect she'll need
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned and almost ran towards the door, as Minerva hastily
      canceled her wards to allow him out. She watched him go, a faint
      smile upon her ancient face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once outside the door, Harry paused for a moment before
      flickering and disappearing. A moment later he stood at the doors
      of the infirmary, feeling faintly stupid for not having planned to
      use phoenix travel in the first place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Madam Pomfrey strode over as Harry entered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shouldn't you be in class, young man?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's Gryffindor side favoured direct honesty, confident that
      Madam Pomfrey would be sympathetic. Slytherin outright laughed at
      this, and it was left to Ravenclaw to point out to Gryffindor that
      Madam Pomfrey was perhaps not quite so sympathetic and adaptable as
      all that. After a moment's reflection, even Gryffindor had to
      concede the point.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I just wanted to see my best friend, Madam Pomfrey. She's been
      hurt very badly in the last day or two, and I really want to be
      here for her when she wakes up. Professor McGonagall said it was
      OK."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Madam Pomfrey subsided slightly. "Very well. Just don't let her
      get excited - she needs her rest."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll do what I can."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He walked quickly to the bed where Hermione lay, seeming to
      relax slightly as he drew near to her. He took a seat next to her
      bed, and gazed absently at her face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He suddenly understood Lucius Malfoy's promise about Draco's
      wellbeing - Harry himself now knew that he felt much the same way
      about Hermione. However he might justify it in utilitarian terms,
      that was nothing more than post-hoc rationalisation - the truth was
      that he would protect her with his life because in his world her
      loss was unthinkable. He had nearly lost her, had been incredibly
      lucky not to lose her - he had risked his life in Azkaban and
      achieved an insanely improbable victory in order to save her. And
      the thing about improbable victories was that you couldn't make a
      habit of them, because in the real world you'd usually just lose.
      He needed to shift the odds a long way in his and her favour, and
      other considerations suddenly seemed a lot less important.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As he emerged from this contemplation, he became aware of
      Professor Flitwick standing quietly on the other side of the bed.
      The tiny man inclined his head to Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I came straight here from Albus' office, and have been with her
      ever since. She hasn't stirred."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, Professor. I'd have been here myself, but I needed
      to be in Transfiguration."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Flitwick paused at that, and looked thoughtfully at Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I hadn't wondered at your absence until now, but I see that
      there's more to this. Why exactly did you need to be in
      Transfiguration?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, for a start I didn't want to let Professor McGonagall
      down. But you're right, there is more - mostly that I really needed
      the chance to talk to my fellow students about what just happened,
      and the sooner the better. Pre-empting rumours is helpful, of
      course, but the main thing is that I'm possibly going to be moving
      against the Headmaster quite soon - I need support for that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Filius looked sharply at Harry. "What exactly do you mean by
      moving against the Headmaster, may I ask? I never agreed to support
      a revolution."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh no, nothing like that! Um... Look, I'll try to be precise
      here. I don't intend to displace Albus Dumbledore from his current
      position as Headmaster. I just want to apply enough pressure to
      make him actually listen to our concerns about security in
      Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Filius sighed. "I have known Albus Dumbledore for a very long
      time, Harry. I now believe that it was a mistake for us to meet him
      head-on in his office earlier today, and I assure you that your
      current plans will merely confirm him in his current position. You
      can try to reassure him that you yourself are not about to destroy
      the world - that might help. You can try to remove him as
      Headmaster - that would work if you managed it, though there would
      be consequences for such an action. What you cannot do, I'm afraid,
      is to openly force the greatest wizard of our time to follow a
      course of action which he has decided is unwise. Put simply, Mr
      Potter, you cannot win a dominance contest against Albus
      Dumbledore. I advise you not to try, and I warn you that I will not
      support you in any such challenge."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned. "I see your point - I'll have to think about
      that. Would you recommend any particular course of action,
      Professor?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Filius shrugged. "Go to see him, alone, and negotiate. Be ready
      to make concessions. I will help you with anything to make the
      castle safer, but I'm afraid I can't change the Headmaster's
      mind."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you. I'll do that, and I'll try very very hard not to get
      into a dominance contest."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Filius nodded. "Yes, do that. I wish you luck. And now, I
      believe that Miss Granger would prefer to see you rather than me
      when she wakes - if Madam Pomfrey asks, you have my permission to
      be here. If you need me, touch your wand to this and I'll return
      immediately."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He tossed Harry a Sickle, then left quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some time later, Hermione finally stirred. Her eyes fell on
      Harry, and she smiled tentatively and held out her hand. He took it
      and returned her smile. They sat in silence for a time, before
      Harry finally broke the silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So how do you feel?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Surprisingly good, actually. I'm completely exhausted, of
      course, but nothing actually hurts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's good."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I probably should still feel guilty about Draco, even if you're
      right about what actually happened, but somehow I just can't make
      myself care."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well that's good, because you shouldn't be feeling bad about
      that anyway. I mean honestly, you'd be demanding way too much of
      yourself if you really felt bad just because you didn't immediately
      face the music when you believed that you'd done something really
      big and scary. You're a human being, Hermione, and probably the
      most moral person I've ever met - you feel OK because no one's
      seriously hurt and you didn't actually do anything very terrible.
      You failed in one small and totally understandable way, and you can
      learn from that, but in the end everyone's OK. Seem fair?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She nodded. "OK, fair enough. So what now? Where do we go from
      here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, the other students are probably just going to forget
      about this - to most of them you're probably still guilty, but what
      I did is so big and strange that it'll bury that. Beyond that, I
      really want you protected from Legilimency so that I can tell you
      my secrets. I'm finished with keeping things from you, at least
      where I have a choice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her eyebrows shot up. "Um... Wow. Thanks? I think? Um... Well,
      I've read about Occlumency and I don't think that I could do it -
      I'm way too young, and I really don't think my mind is… is twisty
      enough to do that kind of pretending. I don't know if there's
      another way. I'll research that, if you like."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He nodded, and she went on. "But Harry, why do you suddenly want
      to tell me your secrets? And what secrets have you been keeping
      from me, anyway?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stood up and pulled the privacy curtain around Hermione's
      bed, casting the sound-blurring charm as he did so. He sat now on
      Hermione's bed rather than on the chair, leaning in close and
      speaking softly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, I know a lot of secrets. Some of the things I know
      could even get people killed - believe me, I have good reason to
      guard my secrets. That's why I did learn Occlumency - there are
      people in this school who read students' minds, and these are not
      people that I trust with all my secrets."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry paused for a moment, and looked directly into Hermione's
      eyes. "As for why I suddenly want to tell you... Hermione, I nearly
      lost you today, and it scared me. Terrified me. It made me think
      about the gap you'd leave in my life, and what you mean to me. And
      then I realised that, if I value you this much, I really should
      tell you a whole lot more and work with you much more as an equal.
      And no, I am not planning to make Draco a similar offer. I'll admit
      that I like him and I do genuinely want to be friends with him as
      well as redeeming him, but there's no way I could trust him the way
      I trust you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione nodded slowly. "So you're promising to tell me all of
      your secrets, or at least most of them, as soon as you're sure no
      one can steal them out of my head?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pretty much, yeah. You'll need to trust me, though - there are
      things you won't like, things that will make you think differently
      about me. Things that would make you sure that I actually had been
      sucked into the darkness like you said I was, except that I've got
      two phoenixes on my shoulders right now and you have some idea what
      that means. Um… So, are you willing to deal with that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She nodded. "Yes, of course, though I might be angry at first.
      But really, you're asking Ravenclaw me whether or not I want
      knowledge. Think about that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True - that was a bit silly of me. Hmm… Professor Flitwick was
      here before you woke up, and he left me a coin to call him with if
      I needed him. Do you mind if I call him back and ask him about ways
      to protect you from Legilimency?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione waved a hand impatiently. "Yes, of course - good
      idea."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry tapped the Sickle with his wand, and then canceled the
      sound-blurring charm and swept away the curtain around Hermione's
      bed. A few moments later, a slightly out-of-breath Filius Flitwick
      entered the infirmary and walked briskly over to Harry and
      Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How are you feeling now, Miss Granger?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine, thank you Professor, and I apologise for making you rush
      back here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He waved a hand dismissively, and Hermione continued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor, other than Occlumency, do you know of any effective
      defence against Legilimency?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Flitwick looked surprised for a moment, but then realised. "Oh
      of course, that would have prevented this whole mess in the first
      place. Hmm…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He sat down absently, face intent, and sat silently for several
      minutes (Harry noted approvingly that he spent actual whole
      minutes, by the clock, thinking about the problem). Eventually
      Flitwick looked up, face serious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have a solution, Miss Granger, but there is a drawback. The
      best plan I can think of at present will simply block your sight
      any time you are subject to Legilimency. This will leave you
      somewhat helpless against other attacks, although the darkness will
      lift as soon as you turn away. Either way, it should at the very
      least ensure that your secrets cannot be stolen without your
      noticing. We can take other precautions to guard your general
      safety, of course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione and Harry both looked extremely curious at that, but
      Hermione was fractionally quicker to speak. "How does it work?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In short, Legilimency requires eye contact. I will cast a ward
      on you, anchored in your eyeballs, which will temporarily conjure
      an opaque barrier over each of your pupils if Legilimency is
      detected. This is new and untried, but I expect that from a
      Legilimens' point of view it will look and feel like a new type of
      Occlumency barrier. Do you wish to try it, Miss Granger?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She nodded nervously. He aimed his wand at each of her eyes in
      turn, and muttered a lengthy incantation which neither Hermione nor
      Harry could even begin to parse. Hermione's pupils glowed white for
      a moment, and she flinched but said nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Flitwick lowered his wand. "I'm not a particularly good
      Legilimens myself, never having practiced the art, but my skills
      should suffice for testing. May I, Miss Granger?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She nodded, and stared bravely into his eyes. A moment later,
      both Hermione and Professor Flitwick recoiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My word!" said Professor Flitwick. "I'm not quite sure why, but
      that actually hurt! I'd call that a rousing success, at least from
      my perspective - anyone who tries to invade your mind in future
      will be thrown out with a sharp slap. Did that test hurt you at
      all, Hermione?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione shook her head. "I was just surprised, that's all.
      Everything went black, very suddenly. It only lasted a
      split-second, though - it's just a shock when it happens."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's even better," Harry said. "You don't even need to turn
      away to clear your eyes, so you'll be much safer than we thought.
      Professor Flitwick, thank you very much."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione hastened to add her own thanks, profoundly grateful to
      be safe inside her own head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The tiny man bowed gracefully, a smile visible in his puffy
      white beard, before taking his leave.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
