<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>16. Depart Azkaban - Depart Azkaban Chapter 8: Questions, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="16. Depart Azkaban"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s8" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 8: Questions</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Only a few minutes after Harry and Hermione had returned to the
      infirmary, the curtain was pulled back and Dumbledore stepped in.
      The Headmaster smiled genially at Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How are you feeling, Miss Granger?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Much better," she said. "Can I leave the infirmary now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore looked thoughtful for a moment, then nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well, unless Madam Pomfrey has a specific reason to keep
      you here. However, you must return here immediately if you feel
      faint or ill."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione readily agreed to that, of course.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Headmaster," Harry said after a moment, "I think I made a
      mistake earlier today, in taking such a confrontational approach to
      you. I apologise for that – if you can spare the time, would you be
      willing to meet with Hermione and me some time today for a much
      friendlier chat?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore gave him a searching look, but then nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Certainly, Harry, certainly. If you would both like to follow
      me, we can go to my office right now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. Fawkes flickered across to Dumbledore's shoulder,
      and the old man positively beamed. A moment later he and Fawkes
      vanished. Hermione stood up and reached out to take Harry's hand,
      but stopped abruptly and strode instead to Madam Pomfrey's
      office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Madam Pomfrey, may I go now? I'm perfectly fine, and Professor
      Dumbledore wants to see me in his office now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Madam Pomfrey glared at the girl before her, but could see
      nothing obviously wrong with her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well, but you're to come straight back here if you feel
      faint."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Madam Pomfrey."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took her hand, and Bentham flamed the two of them directly
      into the Headmaster's office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Headmaster, you say that you aren't willing to upgrade the
      wards until you're satisfied that I'm not a threat to the Wizarding
      world. What can I do to reassure you on that point?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore looked up at the boy and sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm afraid it's not so simple as that, Harry. I doubt neither
      your intentions nor your sincerity in this moment, so no mere words
      from you can reassure me. You are dangerous, young man, and all the
      more so as you cannot see it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait," said Hermione. "Doesn't that mean that Harry could
      reassure you by acknowledging how dangerous he is?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore stared at her for a moment, then inclined his head to
      her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That would certainly be a start."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stepped forward.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"OK, Professor. I want to change the world, and I think I can.
      That has to mean I also have the power to break it. So, we agree on
      that. I think the difference is that I'm sure I wouldn't do that,
      but you think I might go Dark. Or maybe that I already am Dark, I'm
      not sure. I definitely think quite differently to you, so I can see
      where you're coming from."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore nodded, and Harry went on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't really explain how my worldview stops me from going
      Dark, because you can't understand it well enough for that. Um... I
      probably should have planned this a bit better. Give me a
      moment..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Long seconds later, Harry suddenly jumped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course! Headmaster, I have the perfect assurance for you:
      Hermione! I can promise you right now that I won't ever do anything
      that she tells me not to do. And... Um, this bit itself is a pretty
      big secret..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will keep your confidences, Mr Potter. Carry on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, Hermione knows my secrets now. She's the only person who
      does, and that's how it's going to stay. But if you trust her to be
      good, then you can trust me to be good. Or at least not to do
      anything seriously bad."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore looked genuinely shocked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, I know you to possess secrets which could do a great
      deal of damage if they were to be exposed. While I would not
      question Miss Granger's integrity, have you not considered the
      possibility that someone might violate her mental privacy? You may
      have learned Occlumency, but to my knowledge she has not."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry closed his eyes for a few moments as he consciously calmed
      himself down - it was a reasonable point, the headmaster couldn't
      reasonably have anticipated Flitwick's solution, and getting angry
      would be neither reasonable nor helpful.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione's mind is protected by different defences, Headmaster.
      You're right - I didn't dare tell her my secrets until I was sure
      she couldn't simply have them plucked out of her head."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore frankly stared at him. "You have proved me wrong
      before, young man, but once more I find myself caught in sheer
      disbelief. Can you tell me the nature of this protection?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione cut in. "It's a charm that Professor Flitwick cast - I
      think he might have invented it on the spot, or at least modified
      an existing spell when I asked him. It's probably simpler to
      demonstrate than to explain - would you like to try to read my
      mind, Headmaster, in order to see for yourself what happens? He did
      describe the experience as 'a sharp slap', though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore looked thoughtfully at Hermione, then nodded
      slightly. A moment later, he flinched. His jaw dropped, and for
      long seconds he frankly stared. Finally he nodded his head slowly.
      "Very well - your mind certainly is well-protected, Miss Granger.
      And Harry, I take your point - whilever you are bound by Miss
      Granger's morality, you are indeed barred from that seductive path
      into the darkness."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," said Harry fervently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As to the wards," said Dumbledore, "I shall undertake a
      thorough review as soon as I am able. I shall bear your suggestions
      in mind, and implement as many as are reasonable."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stared at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Roughly what sort of timescale are we talking about here,
      Headmaster?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps a few months for the initial assessment, a few months
      to plan the upgrades, and a week or two to actually carry out the
      changes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took a half-step forward.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Headmaster, people will die! Remember, Draco very nearly did
      die - that's why we're here. I don't want any of my classmates to
      die."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You exaggerate, Mr Potter. I shall excuse it as a failing of
      youth, but you really ought to restrain yourself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione laid a hand on Harry's shoulder, and he subsided.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor Dumbledore," said Hermione, "could I be involved in
      that? I don't suppose I'll be able to add much as a first-year, but
      this is a priceless opportunity for me to see exactly how serious
      wards are set up. Er, and from the look he's giving me I think
      Harry wants the same."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmaster paused, and for several seconds he even closed
      his eyes. When his eyes opened, his face showed the full strain of
      his responsibilities.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Miss Granger, above all else I must protect this world. You
      wield power already, and in time I suspect you will wield a great
      deal more. Will you first make an Unbreakable Vow to never abandon
      the Light?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course, Professor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore's wand was suddenly in his hand, without Harry or
      Hermione having seen him move to draw it. He turned and strode to
      the fireplace, igniting it with a twitch of his wand and tossing in
      a pinch of green powder from a bowl on the mantel. "Head of
      Ravenclaw office," he said rapidly but precisely, and a moment
      later his head had disappeared into the flames. Harry, meanwhile,
      was suddenly reminded of just how powerful and competent the
      Headmaster really was with magic. He repeated to himself his
      initial assessment, from the Welcoming Feast a lifetime ago: "Don't
      mess with Dumbledore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A moment later Dumbledore withdrew his head from the fire,
      returning to his desk as if nothing had happened. Another moment,
      and Filius Flitwick emerged from the fire with the same graceful
      twirl that Harry remembered from McGonagall's office. Hermione, who
      was seeing it for the first time, looked at her Head of House with
      increased respect (which was saying something, this being
      Hermione).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Filius," said Dumbledore, "I have agreed to upgrade our wards.
      Miss Granger wishes to be involved in the process, and I wish from
      her an Unbreakable Vow for security. Will you act as Bonder?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Filius glanced at Hermione for confirmation, and then nodded.
      Dumbledore knelt, and motioned Hermione to do likewise. He took her
      hand in his, and then Flitwick's wand rested on their joined hands
      as Dumbledore began to speak very carefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Will you, Hermione, remain always on the side of Light?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A thin tongue of brilliant flame sprang from Flitwick's wand and
      wound its way around their hands like a red-hot wire.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Will you always guard any knowledge you gain about the wards of
      Hogwarts, and never divulge it to others or use it against
      Hogwarts?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A somewhat thicker tongue of flame leapt from Flitwick's wand,
      interweaving itself with the first.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So be it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The flames tightened around their joined hands, leaving thin red
      welts behind as they sank into the skin and vanished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stood up, but Dumbledore remained kneeling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, are you willing to make a Vow also? I will ask only that
      you not act against Hermione's wishes in significant matters of
      conscience."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry caught himself flinching away from making the commitment,
      and brutally overrode that flinch - all he was doing here was
      formalising the promise he had already made to Hermione, and even a
      brief hesitation at this point could carry significant costs. He
      knelt down and took Dumbledore's hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Will you, Harry, always be bound by Hermione's morality in
      major matters of conscience?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As before, a thin tongue of flame from Flitwick's wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So be it," said Dumbledore, a look of profound relief on his
      ancient and careworn face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry winced slightly as the flames cut into his hand, but
      smiled beatifically nonetheless.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
