<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 14: Talking is a Free Action, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s11" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 14: Talking is a Free Action</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Author's Notes: To my knowledge, Rowling doesn't ever say
      exactly how large a gold galleon is, but the Harry Potter Wiki said
      that the ones used in the movies were the same size as an American
      Silver Eagle (57.2g if it were gold). Gold pieces are 1/50th of a
      pound (9.071g) each, so some number crunching gave me an exchange
      rate of 6.30854106 gp per galleon, assuming both have equivalent
      gold purities.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">P.S: the short break, o—o, denotes a flash between simultaneous
      events in one location and another rather than a full scene break.
      You'll see what I mean.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape was decidedly more unpleasant towards Milo (and Gryffindor
      as a whole) in Potions on Monday, presumably because of Milo's
      near-escape from Snape's test over the weekend.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're holding your knife upside-down," Snape sneered at Milo
      as he sat chopping Knarl tail. "Fifteen points from
      Gryffindor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo looked down at the knife. He was no expert on weapons (he
      left that to Fighters and other use-impaired character classes),
      but the knife's blade was sort of triangular and, by any account,
      perfectly symmetrical. Personally, he didn't much care, at least
      now Harry was suffering proportionally less abuse. As soon as
      Snape's back was turned, Milo siphoned off several potion
      ingredients into his Belt of Hidden Pouches. He figured he could
      cut his research and development costs somewhat using pilfered
      supplies.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was with an intense feeling of relief that they left the
      dungeon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Milo remembered suddenly. "I should go see McGonagall, she
      asked me to see her on Friday but I got mauled by a 'Troll'
      instead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You... you put off seeing McGonagall just because of a Troll?"
      Ron asked, his face pale with horror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Run!</em>" Hermione said, panicked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fortunately, their stern Head of House did not seem to mind as
      much as Ron and Hermione had feared she would that Milo had missed
      their appointment for frivolous reasons.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, erm, you wanted to talk to me about Transfigurations?" Milo
      asked her nervously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I have to admit I was worried that Professor Snape might
      have been right about you," McGonagall said apologetically, "but,
      fortunately, you're just as much a wizard as he is—meaning, of
      course, that there's absolutely no reason that you can't succeed in
      Transfiguration."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo swallowed nervously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, I believe the best thing for you would be to receive some
      extra help. With this in mind, I've requested that Professor Snape
      allow you to serve some of your further detentions with me twice a
      week so I can give you remedial lessons."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Th-that doesn't sound so bad," Milo lied. <em class="calibre7">Remedial
      Transfiguration?</em> He would <em class="calibre7">certainly</em> forget to tell
      this to Hermione. "Thank you, Professor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come to the Transfigurations classroom promptly at seven
      o'clock every Tuesday and Thursday," she said seriously, "and I'll
      eat my hat if we don't see some improvement." McGonagall glanced at
      the clock on her wall. "Well, you'd best be leaving if you don't
      want to be late for History of Magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Milo walked to Binns' classroom, he decided fervently that
      the first spell he was going to research would be one that turned
      his matchstick into a pin. The only problem was that he couldn't
      think of any spells he'd ever heard of at his level that could even
      come close to doing that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The reason for Dumbledore's odd request that Milo sleep in the
      hospital wing became immediately apparent upon his return to the
      Gryffindor Common Room Monday afternoon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All hail the conquering Troll slayers!" Fred cried as Milo,
      Hermione, Harry, and Ron climbed through the portal after their
      last class.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No part of that sentence is accurate," Milo tried to say, but
      nobody heard him over the sudden tumultuous roar. It seemed the
      entire Gryffindor house had turned out to congratulate them for...
      not <em class="calibre7">quite</em> defeating a 'Troll'. Fred and George had
      procured food (read: cakes and sweets) and drinks (read:
      butterbeer) from somewhere.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry and Ron insisted we wait for you two to get out of the
      hospital wing before celebrating," said George. "Insisted you two
      did the real work."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dumbledore tipped us off that you'd be out today," said
      Fred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Well,</em> Milo thought, <em class="calibre7">that solves the Mystery of
      Dumbledore Asking Me to Wait a Day</em>. <em class="calibre7">If only the Mystery of
      Who Killed the Acromantula were so simple.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Someone had drawn a surprisingly good (if somewhat
      over-dramatic) scene of Hermione casting the Gust Jinx on the Troll
      on a banner hanging from the wall. They'd even bewitched it to
      move, complete with massive explosion as a grand finale. Hermione
      turned slightly pink; Milo didn't think she was used to being the
      centre of attention.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"'Course, the Hufflepuffs are all likely permanently scarred,"
      Fred said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, having a Troll get blasted through your bedroom is likely
      to do that," said his twin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Putting a tree in their common room likely didn't help much,
      also."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That said, even they're willing to admit it was pretty
      awesome."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sprout was furious—but only until she got a good look at the
      tree, mind."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While the twins were talking, Hermione and Milo were lifted up
      by a crowd of NPCs and passed around.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">This is... unusual</em>, Milo thought. He was more used to
      being presented with bags of gold or magic items as a reward for
      defeating a monster, but... well, having the Gryffindors throw a
      party for his party wasn't entirely unpleasant. He could
      <em class="calibre7">definitely</em> get used to this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're teaching 'The Hermione' in magical self-defence courses
      around Britain," said Fred. "Some handsome devil leaked it to the
      <em class="calibre7">Daily Prophet</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why, <em class="calibre7">thank</em> you," said George.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But it was <em class="calibre7">Harry's</em> idea," Hermione protested, but
      nobody paid her any mind. The Boy-Who-Lived, it appeared, was more
      than happy to step out of the limelight for once.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And to think," Lavender said to Parvati, "I always thought she
      was just an insufferable know-it-all!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When the party finally wrapped up (well after a reasonable hour)
      and the Gryffindors trudged off to bed, Milo realized that he
      hadn't been so happy in <em class="calibre7">ages</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The entirety of Gryffindor house, and to a lesser extent the
      Hogwarts student body as a whole, became increasingly excited as
      the first Quidditch match of the season loomed. Milo was surprised
      to find that, against all narrative convention, the tournament was
      to be opened with Gryffindor playing Slytherin on Friday.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's just <em class="calibre7">wrong</em>," Milo said to Harry after the
      black-haired boy returned, covered in mud, from last-minute
      practice on Tuesday. "You <em class="calibre7">can't</em> play Slytherin on your
      first match."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't need to tell me twice," Harry said nervously. He'd seen
      their team captain a few days prior. Flint (Slytherin's team
      captain), Harry thought, could have been a distant cousin or nephew
      of the Hallowe'en Troll.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You should be fighting them <em class="calibre7">last</em>," Milo pressed.
      "After a series of ever more difficult games that proportionally
      match your Quidditch skills. This just doesn't jive."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wouldn't <em class="calibre7">that</em> be something," Harry muttered tiredly.
      He flopped lazily onto one of the Common Room's overstuffed
      armchairs. Between Gryffindor's communal detentions, his homework
      (Snape seemed to be assigning the whole class extra work
      <em class="calibre7">solely</em> to keep Harry occupied before the match) and Wood's
      frantic Quidditch practice sessions, he'd hardly had any time to
      relax since his release from the hospital wing. Milo, as usual, had
      his nose buried in his spellbook, proving about as indefatigable as
      Hermione when it came to studying—although the similarities broke
      down shortly after that. While Hermione was practically obsessed
      with her homework, she was scandalized by how little Milo cared
      about his school-related studies when, on Wednesday, Milo turned in
      his assignment for Defence Against the Dark Arts (eighteen inches
      of parchment on Vampires), which was revealed to be a page full of
      weird numbers and data, seemingly filled in at random.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, about this match tomorrow—" Milo began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't mention it," said Harry. "<em class="calibre7">Please</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, okay," Milo said, sounding somewhat hurt. "I was just going
      to say that I think I can keep you from getting grievously injured
      by Bludgers. No big deal, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry paused. There was a short, but noticeable, glint in his
      eye.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Really</em>, now?" he asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Mage Armour,</em>" Milo muttered. "There. You're surrounded
      by an invisible force field."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're just putting me on, aren't you," said Harry
      suspiciously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, it's true. Watch this," Milo said, and threw a nearby mug
      at Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ow!" Harry said, as the ceramic cup hit him in the chest. "That
      <em class="calibre7">really</em> hurt!" (in the background, ignored by everyone, was
      a quiet "<em class="calibre7">Hey!</em> That was my mug!" from Neville).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh," said Milo. "Look, nobody can predict rolling a 20, okay?
      Happens to the best of us. Let me try again." Milo picked up a
      Sickle (the silver coin, not the Simple Weapon).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No!" Harry said, raising his arms to cover his head. "I'll
      just... I'll just trust you on this one, okay? I'm protected by an
      invisible force field that will help against speeding Bludgers but
      can't stop small ceramic cocoa mugs. I'm going to bed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry started climbing the staircase to the tower that held
      their dorm room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, wait," Milo said suddenly, "I'd been meaning to ask you
      something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure, what's up?" Harry asked sleepily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, you've got all these piles and piles of gold, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look," said Harry seriously. "I didn't ask for them, right? I
      can't help being rich—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, it's not that at all. The thing is, well, I need your
      help."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned, all trace of exhaustion gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure. What can I do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," said Milo, feeling somewhat awkward about asking a
      friend for money, "you've probably noticed that I tend to use the
      same spells a lot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, yeah, I guess."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's because where I come from, Wizards mostly learn spells
      from other Wizards. But there aren't any of those here," ("Hey!"
      said Neville) "so I have to develop all of my spells myself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I'm rubbish with spells," Harry said. "You should ask
      Hermione for help."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't, er, need your, um, expertise, exactly. You see, I get
      two free spells per level, but to get any others I need weeks of
      research and access to expensive materials."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," said Harry. "So you need money."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...Yeah. But it's for a good cause—you know, fighting Evil and
      stuff."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure, how much?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I know of <em class="calibre7">numerous</em> ways in which I can turn
      3rd-level spells into a way to make us <em class="calibre7">phenomenal</em> amounts
      of gold—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, look, really, it's okay."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—so I'll be able to pay you back when I get some free time,
      probably over the holidays."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't mind, it's not like I'm using it for anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh. You mean, you'll really share the loot?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"'Course, we're friends. Although I sort of object to calling my
      parents' money <em class="calibre7">loot</em>—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Swag, then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed, but decided to ignore it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How much do you need?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're not going to like it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just tell me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo told him. Harry didn't like it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A <em class="calibre7">thousand</em> galleons?" Harry spluttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, a thousand <em class="calibre7">gold pieces</em>. Galleons are quite a lot
      wider and thicker than your standard gp," Milo explained. "There's
      closer to six and a third gold pieces per galleon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So..." Harry said blankly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"158 galleons, 12 sickles, and 12 knuts. Per week, that is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry choked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Half that much again every day and I can make magic items,
      too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know what? I don't even <em class="calibre7">want</em> to know," said Harry.
      Milo's hopes deflated. It looked like he'd be stuck here without
      any spells or magic items after all. "I'll write to Gringotts,"
      Harry said, however. "I dunno exactly what the procedure is for
      transporting great heaps of gold halfway across Britain, but I'm
      sure the goblins will think of something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo grinned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Thank you</em>. I mean it. We're talking direct
      money-to-power translation, here. I'll pay you back in a few
      levels."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo climbed into his four-poster bed feeling like he was on top
      of the world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We have to <em class="calibre7">kill</em> Milo," Draco announced to Crabbe and
      Goyle Tuesday morning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah boss, kill him!" said Crabbe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure boss, uh..." faltered Goyle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Try murder," Malfoy suggested wearily, "or dispatch."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure boss, murder him!" said Goyle, who had never used the word
      <em class="calibre7">dispatch</em> before and was frightened to try.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We have to kill Malfoy," Milo announced to his party Tuesday
      morning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hear, hear!" Ron voiced his agreement. "S'what I've been saying
      for <em class="calibre7">ages</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait," said Harry slowly. "When you say <em class="calibre7">kill</em>..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What'd he do this time?" Hermione asked with a yawn.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thus summer, he broke into my father's summer home," said
      Malfoy imperiously, "and made off with the prototype Nimbus Two
      Thousand and One that Father had. It can't have been a random act
      of burglary because it was all done up like a regular Two
      Thousand—he'd have to have known it was there. I mean, how unlikely
      would it be that he just so <em class="calibre7">happened</em> to grab the
      <em class="calibre7">one</em> test Nimbus Two Thousand and One in all of England?
      There is only <em class="calibre7">one</em> possible conclusion," Malfoy paused
      dramatically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This Hallowe'en," Milo said theatrically, "he boasted about the
      Cuddly Cannons defeating the Wigtown Whatevers at that big game
      thing" (adventurers are notoriously bad about getting long names
      right) "admitting he was behind it. Now, I thought, 'what could a
      Quidditch match <em class="calibre7">possibly</em> have anything to do with
      anything?' when it hit me: the Nimbus Two Thousand. I grabbed one
      off a Death Eater once, and Harry got one in the mail, and thus it
      is on our <em class="calibre7">list</em> and therefore of relevance to the plot. The
      Cannons were all riding Nimbuses donated by Lucius Malfoy, who has
      connections to the Nimbus corporation. There is only <em class="calibre7">one</em>
      possible conclusion," Milo paused dramatically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Milo is working for Firebolt."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Malfoy is working for the Dark Lord."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's Firebolt?" Crabbe asked, his forehead wrinkled in a
      gruesome imitation of human thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A wreck of a broomstick manufacturer; everything they make is a
      total disaster. Remember? The guys who made the brooms the
      Wanderers were testing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Crabbe stared at Malfoy blankly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're <em class="calibre7">hopeless</em>, Goyle," Malfoy muttered to
      Crabbe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, you're <em class="calibre7">hopeless</em>, Goyle," Goyle said to
      Crabbe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, I'm <em class="calibre7">helpless</em>, Crabbe," Crabbe said to Goyle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anyways. The guys working for my father at Nimbus are the best
      in the world. The Two Thousand is only a few months old but it's
      already a hopeless antique compared to what they've got planned for
      the next one. Firebolt would <em class="calibre7">kill</em> to get their hands on it
      and learn its secrets. We <em class="calibre7">can't</em> let that happen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Seems a bit of a stretch, don't it?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a showy gesture, a massive chart appeared in the air behind
      Milo (in actuality, it was a <em class="calibre7">Silent Image</em> that Milo had
      cast several minutes prior and had been concentrating on it the
      whole time while his partymembers woke up. Yes, it would have been
      easier to just cast it then (or simply used a chart) but he felt
      this was more impressive).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a brief pause.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blimey," Ron said, though Milo had yet to figure out, exactly,
      what that word meant.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are we looking at?" Harry asked. Milo's hovering chart had
      a variety of names and events (such as Lucius Malfoy, Snape, the
      Stone, You-Know-Who, Poisoning and the Troll) written neatly,
      connected by lines and arrows of various colours.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This," Milo explained, "is the <em class="calibre7">plot</em>. On the right are
      the villains in order of ascending level: Draco, who is Lucius' son
      and is working with his head of house, Snape; Snape, who is
      secretly the minion of Lucius Malfoy; Lucius who is an ex-Death
      Eater and loyal minion of You-Know-Who."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er," Hermione said cautiously. "What, <em class="calibre7">exactly</em>, do you
      mean by <em class="calibre7">level</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh," Milo faltered. "Power. Importance. You know, the order in
      which we'll face them. Further left are the suspicious camps of
      unsorted villainy: the elves and their goblin servants, the Death
      Eaters, the Cuddly Cannons, and Fudge"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron and Harry were silent. Hermione simply sighed, shaking her
      head and muttering quietly to herself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So... what's Milo doing at Hogwarts, then?" Goyle asked. Malfoy
      shuddered inwardly at the amount of effort that sentence must have
      cost him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Isn't it obvious? Milo's here to secretly befriend
      <em class="calibre7">Potter</em>" (Malfoy said the last word with a contemptuous
      sneer) "who <em class="calibre7">just so happened</em> to get a Nimbus Two Thousand
      in the mail shortly after arriving here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Crabbe and Goyle both blankly blinked back in unison.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's the prototype!" Malfoy shrieked at them. "<em class="calibre7">Someone</em>
      recently handed a perfectly ordinary-looking Two Thousand over to
      the DMLE in September and then <em class="calibre7">days later</em> Potter gets one
      in the mail and, with it, <em class="calibre7">stunning</em> new flying talents
      despite never having ridden a broomstick before. They've switched
      them! What else could explain <em class="calibre7">Potter</em>'s little stunt with
      the Remembrall?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe he's just really good at flying?" Crabbe suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah boss, maybe he's just, despite his young age, so
      unbelievably talented at—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Shut up!</em>" Malfoy commanded. "And then he <em class="calibre7">just so
      happens</em> to be allowed onto the Quidditch team despite being
      too young? It's all a conspiracy! McGonagall or someone somehow
      managed to get Milo's stolen broom from him and gave it to
      <em class="calibre7">Potter</em> so Gryffindor would have a chance at the cup. Then
      she went out and bought a Nimbus—I checked, they have it on record
      at Diagon Alley—and turned <em class="calibre7">that</em> in to the Ministry hoping
      nobody would notice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, let's go through this chronologically. I was attacked in
      the Forbidden Forest by an Acromantula under highly suspicious
      circumstances, and the evidence suggests that someone iced the
      thing with a Killing Curse—highly advanced dark magic. The only
      people nearby were Quirrell, Hagrid, and Harry. As Hagrid can't do
      magic and we can obviously rule out Harry, that points to
      <em class="calibre7">Quirrell</em>—" (Milo traced a blue line from <em class="calibre7">Quirrell</em>
      to <em class="calibre7">Acromantula</em> on his chart).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That <em class="calibre7">can't</em> be your only reason for ruling out Hagrid,"
      Harry said, offended.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—but that's no reason to believe it wasn't Snape, hiding
      somewhere in the forest," (Milo traced a line to Snape) "which
      kicks things up the ladder to Lucius, as, thanks to my furry
      friend, we now know is Snape's secret master, and eventually Lord
      Voldewhatsit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Next," Milo continued over Hermione's objections, "someone
      tried to poison my breakfast and missed. This poisoning was
      facilitated by the elves in the kitchen staff; nobody else could
      have got close to the food" (Milo pointed at their name on the
      chart, "under instructions from Draco, Snape, or Lucius during
      Draco's Quidditch distraction.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I thought you said—" Ron said, but was cut off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"While it is true that I <em class="calibre7">did</em> confront Draco about this
      and decided it wasn't him, my view changed when I found out that
      his father, Lucius, was having covert meetings with Snape in the
      Forbidden Forest. Lucius ordered Snape to have me expelled,
      presumably so Lucius can kill me while I'm no longer protected by
      the wards and Dumbledore. 'Maybe,' I realized, 'it's time we
      stopped ignoring Draco as a legitimate threat.' I'd bet—no, in
      fact, I'm <em class="calibre7">certain</em> of the fact that Draco's up to something
      devious, and likely highly dangerous, <em class="calibre7">as we speak</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, I wrote Father and asked him to ensure that there was a
      Cannons victory on Hallowe'en—he, of course, did so without
      question or hesitation—to make Firebolt look bad and make Milo
      crack. And <em class="calibre7">Merlin</em> did it ever work!" Draco said
      exuberantly. "The nutter tried to end things for himself by the
      tried-and-true <em class="calibre7">suicide by Troll</em> method. Shame Snape was
      there to save him; <em class="calibre7">really</em>, I'd have thought better of
      him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco paused to catch his breath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So," he said with a hint of finality, "we need to act,
      <em class="calibre7">fast</em>, before he can recover. Milo's had <em class="calibre7">far</em> too
      long with <em class="calibre7">Potter</em> to study the prototype for my liking. We
      need to stop that <em class="calibre7">now</em>. The Friday Quidditch match with
      Gryffindor is the perfect opportunity."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And <em class="calibre7">then</em>," Milo continued, "someone released a Troll
      on Hallowe'en. While this would point pretty clearly to Quirrell,
      who seems to be a bit of an expert on Trolls, it just doesn't fit.
      Why would Quirrell release one right after teaching us all how to
      defend ourselves against Trolls? And besides," he added, "Snape's
      behaviour was <em class="calibre7">more</em> than suspicious. As soon as he heard
      about the Troll, he rushed, not to the second floor, where the
      Troll was supposed to be, but to the <em class="calibre7">third floor</em>, where we
      suspect they're hiding the Philosopher's Stone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even Hermione frowned at that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That <em class="calibre7">is</em> a little odd," she said at last. "You don't
      think... you don't think <em class="calibre7">Professor Snape</em> is trying to get
      the Stone?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A bit slow on the uptake, are we?" Milo asked. Hermione turned
      a bit pink. "Snape used the Troll as a distraction to get to the
      Stone and, likely, to kill me. He nearly succeeded on both
      counts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo traced a line from the Troll to Snape to the Stone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Snape's backup plan, however, was <em class="calibre7">already</em> in the
      works. He'd devised a potion to oust me as a different type of
      wizard and have me expelled from Hogwarts which is when I met
      Fudge, your Minister for Magic. At first, I couldn't tell if he was
      pawn or chessmaster, but eventually it became clear. He
      <em class="calibre7">really</em> wanted me expelled, which means he's either got an
      agenda of his own, or he's working with Lucius. Now, he's not on
      Harry's list, meaning he was introduced too late to be a new,
      independent party. That means he was working on behalf of
      Lucius—but, fortunately, the whole Ministry's probably not in on
      it, or there would be all sorts of signs: wrongful imprisonment of
      sympathetic characters, horrific beings of death and fear in their
      employ, mysterious rooms in their basement full of gateways to evil
      dimensions, disagreements with Dumbledore, that kind of thing.
      Also, probably spikes on the Ministry roof—hey, Ron, your dad works
      there; has he ever mentioned spikes on the Ministry roof?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope," Ron said. "He says the desk corners are pretty pointy,
      mind."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmmm. I don't think that's quite enough. So I'm putting them
      down for blatant corruption and incompetence rather than outright
      Evilness. Incidentally, this is probably why obviously Evil wizards
      like Snape and, frankly, the parents of the entire Slytherin house
      are so rarely raided by Aurors. Which brings me back to Snape: he
      is clearly trying to get the Stone for Lucius, who will present it
      to You-Know-Who in return for a position of power in the new world
      order. But his well-laid plans were foiled by you three and
      Quirrell. So," Milo paused to catch his breath, "we need to act,
      <em class="calibre7">fast</em>, before he can recover. The Friday Quidditch match
      with Slytherin is the perfect opportunity."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've got it all planned out," Malfoy said confidently. "I'll
      ask Father to anonymously donate a team's set of Nimbus Two
      Thousands to Slytherin, <em class="calibre7">but</em> they'll all have the names
      filed off and we'll leak to the <em class="calibre7">Daily Prophet</em> that the
      Slytherin team is testing a new Firebolt design."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But," said Crabbe, "I thought you just said they'd be Nimbus
      Two—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, <em class="calibre7">yes</em>, but they're <em class="calibre7">in disguise</em>. So it'll
      be a big thing, because everyone wants to see Firebolt's answer to
      the Two Thousand, so the <em class="calibre7">Prophet</em> and <em class="calibre7">Which
      Broomstick</em> and all of them will have people at the game to see
      how well it does. And here," Malfoy said modestly, "is where it
      gets <em class="calibre7">really</em> clever. Milo will have <em class="calibre7">no choice</em> but
      to try and rig the game so Gryffindor loses, or else his secret
      master, Firebolt, will look bad."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Goyle frowned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But, I thought he was friends with—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But, I thought we <em class="calibre7">want</em> Firebolt to look—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, he cares about as much about <em class="calibre7">Potter</em> as I care
      about you two oafs!" Malfoy said angrily. "And once we can tell
      Milo's rigged the game and it's a shoo-in—or, should I
      say,—<em class="calibre7">slither-in</em> for Slytherin, then we'll have some of our
      players lose control of their brooms, crash, and blame it all on
      Firebolt. Slytherin wins the match, <em class="calibre7">Potter</em> never forgives
      his friend so Milo can't examine the prototype anymore, and
      Firebolt will be ruined."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Crabbe and Goyle were silent, staring in awe up at their
      boss.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've got it all planned out," Milo said confidently. "I'll
      break into Snape's office on Friday right before the game and steal
      some Veritaserum. While Harry is dazzling the school with his
      flying prowess, Hermione, Ron and I will sneak some into Draco's
      water. Then we kidnap him, tie him to a tree in the Forbidden
      Forest and beat him savagely until he tells us everything. We can
      bury his body where the Acromantulas will find him, then go back
      and watch the rest of the match."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry spat out the water he was drinking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We could be sent to <em class="calibre7">prison</em> for that," he
      exclaimed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or worse," Hermione said, her face pale.
      "<em class="calibre7">Expelled</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Might be worth it, though," Ron said with a dreamy expression
      on his face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine, fine," Milo said. "Veritaserum is totally
      tasteless—rather like that Umbridge woman, actually. Malfoy will
      never know he's been drugged, and we can just ask him in the hall
      what his evil scheme is and he'll spill the beans without ever
      knowing why. We can deal with Malfoy later when it's more
      convenient."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let me get this straight," said Ron. "You are going to
      <em class="calibre7">break into</em> Snape's office."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do we know any other Snapes?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not to my knowledge."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So... you're going to break into <em class="calibre7">Professor Snape's
      office</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron stared at him with a mix of fear and respect.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're <em class="calibre7">mad</em>, mate."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's no other choice," Milo insisted. "It's time we go on
      the offensive; we can't just keep waiting here for the next 'Troll'
      or giant spider or whatever. I mean, what's next,
      <em class="calibre7">dragons</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't be ridiculous," said Hermione sharply. "<em class="calibre7">Nobody</em>
      would dare try and bring a <em class="calibre7">dragon</em> into Hogwarts, not while
      Dumbledore's here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, Dumbledore'd go nuts," Ron agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So," Milo pressed, "are we all in?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," said Ron. "Anything to get one over Malfoy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't see that there's much I can do," said Harry, "seeing as
      how I'll be playing Quidditch. But... yeah, I'm in."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone turned to look at Hermione, who remained silent,
      looking troubled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We <em class="calibre7">did</em> have a deal," Ron said. "Remember? Milo found
      proof that Snape's evil, though I think his treatment of Harry
      should have made <em class="calibre7">that</em> clear enough."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, <em class="calibre7">fine</em>," she eventually snapped. "But <em class="calibre7">only</em>
      because you lot are <em class="calibre7">hopeless</em> without me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape lay back in his worn leather office chair, thinking in
      silence. He couldn't imagine how the Headmaster managed to get
      anything done surrounded by those accursed ticking silver
      machines.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirinus Quirrell was trying to get the Stone. That much was
      obvious. The nervous Professor's sudden change in personality was
      highly suspicious, but the Headmaster refused to listen to Snape's
      warnings. Dumbledore, Snape decided, could be far too trusting for
      his own good. Snape would have to take matters into his own
      hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">But... what of the boy? What's Milo's role in all of
      this?</em> If Snape had thought Quirrell seemed attached to the boy
      earlier, Hallowe'en had confirmed that. Quirrell had tried to get
      Milo out of detention with Snape...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape frowned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That wasn't all he'd been trying to do. Milo had been helping
      the Defence Professor with the Troll, so...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape blinked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo was helping Quirrell steal the Stone. <em class="calibre7">That must be why
      Malfoy wanted him thrown out of Hogwarts,</em> realized Snape.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">So. Lucius knows about the Stone.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape ran his hands through his greasy hair. He had a fine line
      to walk: he had to protect Potter without anyone realizing it,
      protect the Stone, help Lucius have Milo expelled to maintain his
      cover with the Death Eaters, and, now, <em class="calibre7">also</em> keep Lucius
      from getting his hands on the Stone—without Lucius realizing he was
      trying to do so. It was only a matter of time before Lucius
      commanded him to steal Flamel's Stone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape's next move, obviously, was to discover everything he
      could about Quirrell. For whom was he working? What, exactly, was
      his relationship with Milo? What <em class="calibre7">really</em> happened to him
      over the summer?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Unfortunately, it wasn't as if Snape could just <em class="calibre7">ask</em> him
      these questions—and if Quirrell was ready to play the game at this
      level, he'd be too clever to let anything slip accidentally. Even
      dosing him with Veritaserum would be unlikely to succeed. Snape,
      for one, always carried the antidote in a small flask on his person
      and drank it whenever he began feeling particularly honest (a rare
      enough feeling to be immediately suspicious); there was no reason
      to believe Quirrell did not do so as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fortunately, Snape had a plan. There were potions other than
      Veritaserum for learning what others wanted kept secret. It took a
      month to brew, but was useful enough that Snape always kept some on
      hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">All I have to do now,</em> he thought to himself, <em class="calibre7">is get
      the boy alone.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape smiled. There was no trace of humour whatsoever in it.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
