<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 16: Be Good For Goodness' Sake, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fa...</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s13" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 16: Be Good For Goodness' Sake</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Author's Notes: Here's your Sunday bonus chapter, as
      promised—but <em class="calibre7">wait</em>, there's more! I don't know what's wrong
      with me, but I'm on a <em class="calibre7">roll</em> lately. I wrote an <em class="calibre7">entire
      chapter</em> yesterday, and it wasn't this one. I'll put the
      finishing touches on it today, and tomorrow, you, my faithful
      readers, get Bonus Chapter 2: Revenge of the this Time it's
      Personal Strikes Back. Also, I decided to rename the Hallowe'en
      chapters from the rather boring Part 1, 2, 3, and 4 to be
      Sidequests, Hallowe'en, Odds of Survival, and The Troll and the
      Dementor, respectively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So: Chapter Seventeen will go up tomorrow, and Chapter Eighteen
      will go up on Saturday, as usual. (Who knows, maybe Nineteen will
      be on Sunday?)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Anyways, on with the story! I hope nobody is deterred by the
      flood of chapters! And if you like it, review it!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Sit,</em>" McGonagall commanded. Milo was in the hard
      leather chair in her office before she'd finished saying the
      one-syllable word. "Your behaviour today was cowardly, treacherous,
      sickening, and unbecoming of a Hogwarts student, much less a member
      of my house. I have half a mind to expel you this very minute.
      <em class="calibre7">What</em> do you have to say for yourself?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," said Milo, "in my defence, he sort of had it coming. I
      mean, <em class="calibre7">look</em> at him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You will explain to me, right now, clearly and succinctly, how
      you could <em class="calibre7">possibly</em> think that such a poor, sweet, innocent
      boy who has already suffered <em class="calibre7">so much</em> had—what was it you
      said? Oh yes, how he <em class="calibre7">had it coming</em>. If I find your
      explanation is in <em class="calibre7">any way</em> unsatisfactory, you'll be out of
      here faster than you can say <em class="calibre7">Mimbulus Mimbletonia</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's <em class="calibre7">obviously</em> working for You-Know-Who."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall sat down heavily in her office chair, stammering and
      apparently at a complete loss for words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of all the ridiculous—<em class="calibre7">impossible—</em>why, he would be the
      <em class="calibre7">last</em> person to ever—in any case, You-Know-Who's long
      gone—I was a friend of his parents, I won't listen to such
      unfounded accusations!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, so you're in his father's pocket as well?" Milo asked,
      disappointed. "Seems like the whole wizarding world is convinced
      he's such a great guy when he's really, clearly, <em class="calibre7">obviously</em>
      evil. It's like you're all blind, I swear!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Evil?</em> A tad arrogant, when he was younger, and I
      suppose he had an unfortunate and blatant disregard for any rules
      he found inconvenient, but <em class="calibre7">never</em> evil. There are places in
      this country—and right now, I'm debating if you're sitting in one
      as we speak—where statements like that would be responded to with
      challenges to duels."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I always had you figured as being on <em class="calibre7">our</em> side,
      Professor. I can see that my trust was misplaced."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what, <em class="calibre7">exactly</em>, is <em class="calibre7">your</em> side, then, boy?"
      McGonagall asked, her face flushed with anger. Milo was starting to
      wonder if she hadn't multiclassed into Barbarian for some
      mysterious reason.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The good guys, Professor," Milo said as if it were the most
      obvious thing in the world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">How dare you</em>—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you're of a mind to call Draco Malfoy a <em class="calibre7">poor sweet,
      innocent boy</em> then," Milo said with a hint of finality, "I
      think we're through anyways."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall stared at him as if he had just said the sky was
      green.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I—you—<em class="calibre7">Draco</em>..." she stopped talking and simply
      breathed steadily for several moments, evidently trying to calm
      down. "<em class="calibre7">Who</em> did you think we were <em class="calibre7">t</em>alking
      about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who did <em class="calibre7">you</em> think we were talking about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry James Potter," McGonagall said. "The boy you nearly
      killed today."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Milo said. What was it Quirrell mentioned about the
      Polyjuice potion? "<em class="calibre7">That</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. <em class="calibre7">That</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">There must be a change of plans... my family are still
      loyal... more than I can say for some...</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Y-yes, my l-lord, of c-c-course, my lord, but I have always
      b-been your most d-devout—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Interesting, isn't it, that, when asked, all my servants
      profess to be my most devout, my most faithful... paradoxical, it
      seems...</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"W-we've had setbacks, I-I'll admit t-t-to that, my l-lord,
      b-but—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Indeed we have had... setbacks. Perhaps I should turn to
      Lucius instead.. one of my other</em> most faithful
      <em class="calibre7">servants...</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"B-but my l-lord, w-we are weak—f-forgive me, b-but y-y-you know
      it to b-be true—w-what is to stop him f-from s-simply killing us
      and c-c-continuing to rule in y-your stead?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Killing</em> you<em class="calibre7">, you mean... for</em> I <em class="calibre7">am far
      beyond the reach of even Lucius Malfoy...</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, of c-course, my lord, what I m-meant was that you w-would
      be as I f-f-found you. S-surely, a s-significant s-s-setback even
      for one such as—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Yes, yes, I know what you mean... ought to be more
      concise... takes ages to say anything with your
      st-st-stutter...</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"S-so my l-l-lord, w-what shall we d-d-do? C-continue to t-try
      for the St-Stone or for the b-b-boy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">I see no reason we cannot do both... for if one fails, and
      knowing you, one</em> will <em class="calibre7">fail, we will have the other...
      simply prudent...</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"B-but he claims he c-c-cannot cast the spell yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">But his power grows with violence... provide him with
      violence, Quirrell, violence at all levels...</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A-at all levels, m-my lord?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Violence he can overcome, but... violence where he fears
      for his life... for the lives of others...<br class="calibre4"/>
      at all times, Quirrell, all times... he must never know safety
      again... but keep him alive... yes, always<br class="calibre4"/>
      alive...</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It w-w-will take t-time m-m-my lord, a-as with the Acr—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">SILENCE. You are</em> never <em class="calibre7">to mention that to me
      again!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I-I'm sorry, my lord, have m-m-mercy... the p-p-p-pain..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Mercy?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Y-yes, my lord, please, my lord, I b-b-beg—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Very well... Am I not merciful, Quirrell? You are granted
      reprieve from your sufferings... for the moment...</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Th-th-thank you, m-my—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Cease... no time to waste on your incomprehensible
      stammering... we must plan carefully...</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My lord, w-what if—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">I meant 'we' figuratively... I, of course, shall plan
      carefully... you shall listen, and you shall act...</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of c-course, my lord."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">You are their hero, now, are you not? Saved the mudblood
      from the monster... we must use this...</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"H-how, my l-l-lord?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">This is what you must do...</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—so you see, it wasn't me at all who cast the hex or whatever
      it was," Milo explained reasonably, "but, in fact, Professor Snape,
      polyjuiced to look exactly like me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you seriously expect me to believe this load of tripe?"
      McGonagall snapped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Snape's—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Professor</em> Snape," McGonagall corrected sharply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right, <em class="calibre7">Professor</em> Snape's had it out for Potter since
      he first set foot in this castle. Everyone knows it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Be that as it may," McGonagall said. Milo was somewhat
      astonished that she didn't contest the point, "the notion that he
      would use <em class="calibre7">Polyjuice</em> to facilitate assaulting one of our
      students is <em class="calibre7">completely</em> out of the question. Now, are you
      quite ready to tell me the truth, or would you rather I have you
      thrown out the front gates immediately?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Truth!</em> Of course. Professor, dose me with Veritaserum
      and you'll be able to tell that I'm being completely honest!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Regrettably, the use of Veritaserum is strictly controlled by
      the Ministry," McGonagall said, "and is not used in the
      investigations of school rule infractions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then, doesn't the fact that I was going to volunteer to take it
      count towards me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not if you were already aware of these regulations, Mr.
      Amastacia-Liadon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo stared at her, fear rising. He couldn't believe he was
      about to be expelled for something that happened offstage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can't just expel me without any proof!" he protested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have twenty-six eyewitness reports that say you brazenly used
      the Hurling Hex on Mr. Potter in the middle of a Quidditch match in
      plain sight!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But—but I <em class="calibre7">didn't!</em>" Milo was appalled that that was the
      best argument he could think of.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You will pack your school trunk in your dormitory, where you
      will remain until morning when you will be taken to the Ministry to
      have your wand destroyed—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">My wand!</em>" Milo said with sudden inspiration. "Here,
      look—" Milo drew his wand from his pocket.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't have time for this foolishness," McGonagall
      muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But—<em class="calibre7">look at it, Professor!</em> I had it on me the whole
      time, what wand did I allegedly use to hex Harry? Was it chestnut,
      thirteen inches, with dragon heartstring core? No! It can't have
      been because all wands are unique."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It only would have been visible for a few seconds," McGonagall
      said, "nobody reported what wand you used."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo's hopes deflated. That was his last hope. He couldn't
      believe he was going to be thrown out of Hogwarts because a crowd
      of NPCs failed their Spot checks to see something he wasn't even
      <em class="calibre7">there</em> for.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So..." Milo said hesitantly. "What happens now? Where will I
      go?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"After the Ministry?" McGonagall said. For an almost
      imperceptible moment, her gaze seemed to soften. "After your wand
      has been destroyed, it's quite up to you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well, Professor. I'll head to my dormitory now." Milo
      walked back to the familiar sights of the Gryffindor Common Room in
      a daze.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And then I hit him with a water balloon and said 'Hey, Malfoy,
      think fast!'" Ron said exuberantly, causing Hermione to snort in a
      most unladylike fashion. "How'd everything go with Grabbe and
      Coyle?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, it was no trouble at all. I just walked up to them and
      said, 'oh no, I'm just a poor defenceless Muggleborn girl who
      misplaced her wand, whatever shall I do?'" Hermione said with a
      wicked grin. "Took them about five seconds to try and hex me.
      Anything I did after that was purely self-defence, you
      understand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The pair of them were waiting outside Pomfrey's hospital wing
      for the strict witch to declare Harry fit for visitors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eventually, the heavy doors opened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Pomfrey said wearily. "It's you lot again. Well, come in,
      come in," she ushered the pair into the ward.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Visitors!" Neville said happily, his nose just poking out
      between thick bandages. "I <em class="calibre7">never</em> get visitors!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nah, we're here for Harry," said Ron, ignoring a sharp look
      from Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey," said Harry. Injuries notwithstanding, he seemed to be in
      high spirits. "Did you hear? Or see? I caught it! Looks like I'm
      not rubbish after all!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To tell the truth, I only caught the first bit," Ron admitted,
      looking apologetic. "But that's only because our plan
      <em class="calibre7">worked</em>. Can you believe it? Malfoy told me
      everything!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As he happily told Harry about Malfoy's crackpot scheme
      involving the Firebolts and the Nimbuses, Harry burst out laughing,
      clutching his sides.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So when they saw me lose control of my broom," he asked when he
      could finally breathe, "they thought <em class="calibre7">Milo</em> hexed me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nutty, isn't it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where is he, by the way?" Harry asked, looking around.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dunno," said Ron. "Good question. Haven't seen him since before
      the match. You don't... you don't think Snape caught him, do
      you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can't have," Neville said. Harry, Ron, and Hermione turned to
      him, somewhat surprised that he'd spoken. "He was at the Quidditch
      game."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, really?" Ron asked. "He could have helped with Malfoy,
      then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can't have," Neville said, his face (well, the visible parts
      anyways) uncharacteristically grim. "He was too busy hexing Harry's
      broomstick."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean Malfoy was <em class="calibre7">right?</em>" Ron asked, alarmed.
      "Merlin's pants! That <em class="calibre7">turncoat!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Looks like," Neville said sullenly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," said Harry firmly. "I don't believe it. He was set
      up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I saw it myself! He just stood up, pulled out his wand, and
      hexed you! Right in plain sight!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a brief silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you say wand?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Password?" asked the Fat Lady.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Squeak," Milo replied, and the portrait swung open. <em class="calibre7">Stupid
      password</em>, he thought to himself. <em class="calibre7">The 'ultra-secure' Common
      Room can be infiltrated by a Fighter in heavy armour after a rainy
      day.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">As soon as Milo entered the Common Room, he wished he still had
      <em class="calibre7">Invisibility</em> prepared. The sounds of partying cut off
      immediately when he came into sight, and everyone simply stared at
      him silently. Milo walked directly to the dorm, and the crowd
      parted slightly around him—it seemed that nobody wanted to touch
      him. Milo was surprised at how much their shocked disapproval hurt
      him—they were only NPCs, after all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He collapsed onto his four-poster bed, exhausted. He knew he
      should be thinking of a plan, some clever scheme, to get out of
      this, but he just felt too tired. He'd been defeated, that was all
      there was to it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was going to be expelled. Lucius had won.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor!" Hermione practically shouted, knocking sharply on
      the office door. There was no reply. "She must be out somewhere!"
      she moaned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe—maybe she's in the staff room?" Ron suggested, "or the
      Great Hall?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or she's patrolling the corridors," Hermione said, despair
      growing. "Or visiting another teacher's office. Or overseeing
      detention. Or she's out of the castle. She could even be—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione gasped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Ron asked, alarmed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't think she—could it be? She <em class="calibre7">wouldn't</em>, would
      she?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One day," Ron said, "you're going to give me a straight answer.
      And on that day, I'm going to buy a lottery ticket and win a
      thousand Galleons."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She might be—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And then I'll be selected for Head Boy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ron, listen, she—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And named Minister for Magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Ron</em>—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then Snape will apologize for being a git and stick his head in
      a cauldron. Oh, and he'll pull Malfoy in after him. To round it
      off, the Chudley Cannons will ask me over for tea to give them a
      few pointers on Quaffle handling. And then I'll go to bed early in
      my solid gold, king-sized bed <em class="calibre7">stuffed</em> with unicorn's hair
      in my <em class="calibre7">floating palace</em>." Abruptly, Ron realized Hermione
      had stopped interrupting him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you quite done?" Hermione asked testily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was going to mention the butterbeer fountains, marble
      statues, and how it can travel to Jupiter, but that seems somehow
      unnecessary now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was <em class="calibre7">going</em> to say, before you so <em class="calibre7">rudely</em> cut
      me off, that she might already be at the Ministry!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron stared at her blankly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why would she be at the Ministry?" he asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Because</em>," Hermione explained wearily, "when a student
      is to be expelled, the DMLE and the Improper Use of Magic Office in
      particular have to be informed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron continued to stare at her without comprehension.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">So that they can destroy the student's wand</em>," Hermione
      said, fighting down the urge to add 'Duh.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blimey," Ron said. "Who do you think is getting the axe?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stared at him with genuine surprise on her face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Milo, of course! Honestly, is there <em class="calibre7">anything</em> between
      those ears of yours?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron paled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We have to find McGonagall before that happens!" he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Ron," Hermione said, her voice commendably, under the
      circumstances, both level and patient. "That's why we're here.
      Knocking on her office door." Hermione paused for a moment, willing
      herself not to say it, but even her doughty willpower could break
      under sufficient strain. "<em class="calibre7">Duh</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville, who for one reason or another had been living in the
      hospital wing for the past two months (when he was lucky, that
      is—the rest of the time, he was at St. Mungo's) had a few special
      concessions from Madam Pomfrey that most short-term patients didn't
      get. They were little things, like a reading lamp (Neville always
      had trouble with Lumos), a few extra pillows, the blanket that
      smelled the least of cats, a bedside table with a pair of drawers
      for keeping his clothes in, and the cot next to the window.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was due to this last fact that, on Friday evening, he saw a
      tall, thin figure striding confidently up to the Hogwarts
      gates.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, Harry," Neville said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's up, Nev?" Harry asked sleepily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, Ron and Hermione went out to find McGonagall, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And that was four hours ago, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Was it?" Harry asked. He must have drifted off at some point,
      he realized.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, it was. So they must not have found her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Guess not."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, she's right outside."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She is?" Harry asked, all trace of drowsiness gone. He looked
      around for Madam Pomfrey, but she seemed to be out somewhere. Well,
      there was nothing else for it. Agonizingly, he stood up and limped
      towards the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, we've searched the staff room, the Common Room, every
      teacher's office, all known corridors of Hogwarts, Hagrid's Hut,
      the dungeons, the Great Hall, the lake, the Quidditch Pitch, the
      astronomy tower, and most of the empty classrooms, but there's been
      no sign of her," Ron moaned in despair. He and Hermione were
      standing in the entrance hall trying to decide where to look
      next.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sign of whom?" asked a familiar voice. The pair turned to see
      Professor McGonagall standing at the entrance, taking off her coat
      and looking curious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor!" Hermione said with relief. "We finally found
      you!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Me?" McGonagall asked in surprise. "Is Peeves acting up
      again?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Hermione said at the same time that Ron said
      "Probably."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, than what can I help you with?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's about Milo," Hermione said. "He's innocent!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall's face hardened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I understand he's your friend, but there were dozens of
      witnesses. I'm sorry, but I have no choice but to expel him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, Professor, you don't understand. You see—" Hermione froze.
      She was about to say, 'you see, he was seen using a wand and Milo's
      magic doesn't need wands,' but she realized that that would just
      get him expelled for a different reason. She began to realize that
      maybe, this time, she hadn't thought their plan all the way
      through. "He wouldn't do something like that," she finished
      lamely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," said Ron. "I mean, he's a bit of a nutter, mind, but
      he's Harry's mate. He wouldn't hex him like that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry," McGonagall said. "But without something a bit more
      than your gut feelings, the case is open and shut. Now, if you'll
      excuse me, I have a great deal of paperwork to do. Unless one of
      you has something concrete?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I asked him to," said a voice. Hermione turned in surprise to
      see Harry, wrapped in bandages and casts, leaning weakly against a
      doorway on the upper level.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, what—" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I asked him to pretend to hex me," Harry said. "We found out
      that Malfoy had concocted a some nutty plan to rig the Quidditch
      match and make Firebolt look bad, and he thought for some reason
      that Milo would hex me to protect the reputation of the broomstick
      company. Can't imagine why. So I asked Milo to pretend to go along
      with it, and faked the whole thing. Malfoy thought his plan had
      worked, and his team pretended to lose control of their brooms. It
      was all faked. Milo never <em class="calibre7">really</em> hexed me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall, Ron, and Hermione stared at him, shock evident on
      their faces.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall's mouth moved a few times, as if she were about to
      speak, but couldn't quite find the words. Harry, Ron, and Hermione
      stared at her in hopeful silence. Eventually, she rallied
      somewhat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of all the—not even <em class="calibre7">Fred and George</em> would have—okay,
      maybe Fred and George—but... <em class="calibre7">how</em> did you discover this
      alleged plan?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," said Ron, "that was me. He just bragged to me about it,
      right to my face, during... er, just before the match. Can't
      imagine why."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He <em class="calibre7">told</em> you?" McGonagall said. "But <em class="calibre7">why</em>... I
      spoke to Milo earlier, he came up with some preposterous tale about
      Professor Snape and Polyjuice... why didn't he just tell me the
      truth?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because he's only eleven and was scared?" Hermione suggested
      hopefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I'll have to owl the Ministry immediately and tell them
      to cancel the hearing... of all the crackpot schemes, this one has
      to take the cake."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So..." Hermione said, hope rising on her face like the sun, "so
      he's cleared? He won't be expelled?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," McGonagall said, "but this was, nonetheless, an
      underhanded move unworthy of our House. And Mister Potter, I
      thought better of you. Twenty points from Gryffindor from you and
      Milo <em class="calibre7">each</em>, and detention every Saturday for the rest of
      November. And December. At <em class="calibre7">least</em>. And you two—" McGonagall
      turned to Ron and Hermione "—were you involved in this as
      well?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, not involved in any way whatsoever, Ma'am." Ron said
      smoothly, his years of living in the same house as the twins paying
      off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Us? Involved? Hah. He. Hahaha. Nope," Hermione said nervously.
      McGonagall eyed them suspiciously, but instead of giving them
      detention, just turned and walked up the stairs to her office,
      muttering to herself about needing a Firewhiskey.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were a few blessed seconds of relief for the three friends
      as they savoured their triumph. It was interrupted, however, by a
      fell shriek that could have raised the dead (in a manner of
      speaking, it did—the ghost of Nearly Headless Nick, hovering
      nearby, was so startled that he (nearly) lost his head).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">What are you doing out of bed, young man?</em>" came the
      terrible voice of a wrathful Madam Pomfrey. Harry turned around in
      terror, while Hermione and Ron simply fled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When word got around that Milo's surprise attack on the
      Boy-Who-Lived was not, as had been generally believed, treachery
      most foul, but rather a component in a circuitous gambit to
      sabotage the Slytherin Quidditch team and guarantee a Gryffindor
      win, there was much shuffling of feet and making of sheepish
      glances in the Gryffindor Common Room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, really, when it comes down to it, we're sorry, mate," said
      an NPC (Seamus Finnigan, not that Milo knew or particularly
      cared).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why the sudden reversal of opinion?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, you see, Hermione came into the Common Room about an hour
      ago," said Fred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—And she stood up on the table, right in the centre of the
      room—"continued George.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was horrible," said another NPC (Dean Thomas). "like a
      banshee of wrath..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—And she started speaking, and the walls shook—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—Only, see, nobody saw her cast Sonorus, so it was all
      her—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—And she calmly told us about judging people before fully
      understanding the situation—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—Oh, yes, definitely calm. Level-headed, she was. The windows
      shattered of their own accord—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—And, if she asks, we didn't even <em class="calibre7">hint</em> otherwise—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—And thus, we were enlightened to the errors of our ways,"
      finished George.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Frankly, I'm surprised you didn't hear it, mate," said Dean.
      Milo noticed that they were calling him 'mate' a lot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione must have put up some kinda Charm to keep teachers in
      the halls from storming in to see what all the screaming was
      about," Milo shrugged. "She's careful like that." In truth, he'd
      heard every word, but wanted to hear them explain it anyways. It
      was more fun that way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought you were innocent the whole time," said Hannah.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Isn't this the boys' dorm?" asked Dean. Hannah coloured
      slightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So," Seamus said, somewhat nervously. "Want to come down and
      have some butterbeer? There's not much left, but it's really good.
      How Fred and George get this stuff, I'll never know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And we'll never tell," Fred winked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," said Milo. "I think I'd like that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The whole room gave a collective sigh of relief.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So," he said on the way down the stairs into the Common Room,
      "what's your excuse going to be next week?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry, mate?" asked George.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For a party. Seems like a weekly tradition 'round here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It isn't," said Fred slowly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But it <em class="calibre7">should</em> be," said George, whose forehead
      wrinkled in thought for a moment. "We'll think of something," he
      said finally. "Trust us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And drink this," Fred said, pushing a heavy tankard of
      butterbeer into Milo's hands. Milo sipped it cautiously, and
      suddenly grinned. The stuff wasn't ale (the preferred method of
      hydration for adventurers everywhere), but it was pretty fantastic.
      And before you cry, "But he's only eleven! He's far too young for
      ale!" you should be advised that there are, in fact, no rules for
      intoxication from alcohol anywhere to be found. It can therefore be
      concluded, via strict interpretation of the holy Rules-As-Written,
      that one can drink gallons of tequila like water.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shouldn't we have waited for Harry to get out of the hospital?"
      Milo asked suddenly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's what we thought," said Fred (maybe), "but he gave us
      permission to celebrate without him in future events such as this,
      so long as we save him some of the provender."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Speaking of which, hands off the last of the Every Flavoured
      Beans, you greedy git!" George said, glaring at Ron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Quidditch victory party concluded a little after midnight
      when a sleepy McGonagall made them all go to bed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Despite Fred and George's promise, the next few weeks were
      surprisingly uneventful (not that that prevented them from finding
      excuses for celebration, as their "Happy November the 22nd Day!"
      festivities attested to). Milo's time was taken up by almost
      constant detentions (both for McGonagall and Snape, now) and
      lessons with McGonagall, but he found enough time in to research
      <em class="calibre7">Benign Transposition</em>, <em class="calibre7">Disguise Self</em>,
      <em class="calibre7">Nerveskitter</em>, and <em class="calibre7">Resist Energy</em>. If Snape had any
      reaction to his latest plot to expel Milo, it went unnoticed among
      his usual horribleness. Quirrell started a unit on vampires, which
      sent Hermione into a panic because it wasn't on the original
      reading list.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was on a cold December afternoon when Milo returned to the
      Common Room to find a small crowd gathered around the bulletin
      board.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's going on?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's Quirrell," said Lee. Fear gripped Milo's heart. Had Snape
      finally gotten the better of the enigmatic Defence Professor?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What happened to him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothin'," said Lee. "Only he's started a Duelling Club."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The bulletin had a large parchment poster pinned to it, reading
      SUNDAY DUELLING CLUB SIGN-UP on it, with a number of lines for
      people to write their names in. The lines were already all taken,
      and several people had scrawled their names haphazardly in the
      margins.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo grinned. Sundays were his remaining free day, so there was
      nothing to stop him from attending Quirrell's club and stomping
      some of the local 'wizards' for fun and XP. What were they going to
      do, shoot sparks at him?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The poster said the club meetings would start after the holiday
      break.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, Ron," Milo asked, picking his partymember out from the
      crowd. "What's a holiday break?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You <em class="calibre7">don't even know what a holiday break is?</em>" Ron
      asked, flabbergasted. "<em class="calibre7">Everyone</em>—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione coughed pointedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—here would like nothing more than to illuminate you on this
      subject," Ron finished smoothly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Everyone gets to go home for Christmas," Hermione
      explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do we have to?" Milo and Harry asked simultaneously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Jinx," muttered Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What? Where?" Milo asked, looking around warily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nevermind," said Harry. "It's a Muggle thing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Hermione said. "You can stay for the holidays, but almost
      nobody does."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cool," said Milo.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Also, what's Christmas?" Milo asked. Hermione, who had the bad
      timing to be drinking from a glass of water right then, snorted her
      drink from her nose.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">What's Christmas?</em>" she asked. "<em class="calibre7">Everyone</em>
      knows... ah. Ahem. It's a holiday that happens once a year on
      December 25th where people give each other presents."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do I need a costume again?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. Costumes on Christmas are strictly optional."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Will there be Trolls?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, there's just Father Christmas and his elves," Hermione
      said, regretting it instantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Elves</em> again, eh?" Milo asked, rubbing his hands
      together. "Harry, put them on the list. These <em class="calibre7">elves</em> have
      come up enough now that I'm sure they must be relevant to
      <em class="calibre7">something</em>... what sort of elf are they, these ones that
      work for this 'Father Christmas?'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Christmas elves," Hermione said in a quiet voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Must be an obscure, non-core subrace. I'll keep an eye out for
      them. What's Father Christmas?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He... <em class="calibre7">children</em> believe he travels to everyone's house
      at night on a flying sleigh and delivers presents on Christmas,"
      Hermione explained. "But nobody <em class="calibre7">really</em> thinks he's real.
      People also call him Santa Claus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Santa Claws?</em> This just keeps getting worse and worse!"
      Milo said. "He must be an exceptionally powerful caster to be able
      to cast enough <em class="calibre7">Time Stops</em> to get all the way around the
      world in a single night... unless he has a use-activated Magic
      Item... wow, that would be worth a fortune."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But—he's not really <em class="calibre7">real</em>," Hermione insisted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't tell you how many times I've heard that before," Milo
      snorted. "'there are tales—unfounded, of course—of a fell monster
      in the woods...' or 'they speak, in whispered voices, of a wolf
      that walks among men... I'm sure it's just rumour, though.'
      Hermione," Milo said, in the tone of someone talking to a small,
      ignorant child, "if there's one thing I'm surprised you haven't
      learned by now, it's that <em class="calibre7">all rumours are true</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But <em class="calibre7">Father Christmas isn't real</em>," she insisted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, really?" Milo asked. "Harry once told me that Muggles don't
      believe in dragons, magic, elves, <em class="calibre7">or</em> goblins," Milo
      scoffed. "And all of those things are real."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's <em class="calibre7">no</em> reason to think—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, how many of the things you believed as a
      <em class="calibre7">small</em> child, only to find out as a <em class="calibre7">medium</em> child
      were make-believe, turned out to be real when, as a <em class="calibre7">large</em>
      child, you discovered you were a witch?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a brief silence as Hermione did some mental
      arithmetic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Most of them," Hermione admitted with a frown. "But come on.
      Father Christmas? Not even <em class="calibre7">wizards</em> believe in him—right,
      Ron?" Ron didn't respond. "Ron?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"F-Father Christmas isn't real?" he asked, stunned. "Fred and
      George said they saw him, once..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, he's real alright," Milo said grimly. "And worse: he's in
      league with the elves."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With that, Milo strode off to his favourite armchair (one in the
      corner which presented him with a clear view of the room, while
      also being close enough to the window that he could dive out and
      <em class="calibre7">Feather Fall</em> in an emergency), pulling materials out of
      his Belt of Hidden Pouches.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where are you going?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have to put the finishing touches on my Robe of Arcane
      Might," Milo said. "I might be needing it, soon." He had to find a
      way to get out of his detentions, they were cutting into his
      crafting time. Maybe if he could slay Santa Claws and take his
      magic Item of <em class="calibre7">Time Stop</em>...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo wasn't sure exactly what this Father Christmas's connection
      was to the drow in the kitchen that tried to poison him, but one
      thing was for sure:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If Santa—or any of his little elves—tried anything on or about
      Christmas, they weren't going to just walk away from it.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
