<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 17: White Christmas, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s14" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 17: White Christmas</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Author's Notes: To anyone who didn't check yesterday (Sunday),
      and it confused, this is the <em class="calibre7">second</em> bonus chapter this
      week. If the last thing you remember in the story is an angry
      McGonagall pulling Milo from a meeting with Quirrell, you need to
      go back a chapter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Also, to my absolute horror, as The Lost Hibiki pointed out,
      I've been reading the requirements on Spontaneous Divination
      wrongly this whole time. I am so, <em class="calibre7">so</em> sorry—my intent from
      the very beginning was to have Milo stay strictly within the
      confines of the Rules as Written (RAW) in order to poke fun at some
      of the quirks and inconsistencies in D&amp;D, and also so that
      D&amp;D fans would have a very clear understanding of Milo's
      abilities (making it all the more fun to try to figure out how he's
      going to get out of a tough position). As it turns out, Spontaneous
      Divination requires substitution of one of a Wizard's bonus feats
      <em class="calibre7">other</em> than Scribe Scroll, meaning it isn't available for
      Milo until level five (meaning he can't have used it before his
      battle with the Troll). Normally, for an error like that, I would
      go back and edit the previous chapters to fix it, but in this case
      Milo's use of Spontaneous Divination is too deeply interwoven
      within the plot to pull it out. I hope the hardcore D&amp;D fans
      out there aren't too put off by my mistake!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The best I can do is apologize, and say that <em class="calibre7">either</em>
      Milo comes from a campaign world run by a DM who house-ruled
      Spontaneous Divination's prereqs, or alternatively, Milo is
      <em class="calibre7">such a munchkin</em> that he figured out how to get it early
      even though I never could.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, Harry!" said Milo excitedly, running up to his partymember
      in their dorm room. It was the day before the holiday, and everyone
      was eagerly awaiting two weeks at home—everyone, that is, except
      Harry and Milo, who were staying.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's up?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Check this out," he said, holding up an ordinary-looking
      Hogwarts school uniform.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You finally done tinkering with that thing?" Harry asked. "You
      said it would be done weeks ago."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, well," Milo said, "feature creep, you know. And then
      there's all the detentions. Anyways, take this," Milo said, passing
      Harry the Cold Iron dagger that he kept in his magic belt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why do you have a knife?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay," Milo said, practically bursting with excitement. "Now,
      stab it!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is a pretty serious-looking knife."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Never mind that, stab! Stabbity stab!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You carry this around all the time? I think that's against
      school rules."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, <em class="calibre7">come on!</em> Those wands are lethal weapons and they
      give them to eleven-year-olds, what's a Masterwork shiv here and
      there? Now <em class="calibre7">stab!</em>" Milo was bouncing on his heels.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is this like the time you threw a mug at me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Exactly</em> like that! This robe is practically
      <em class="calibre7">made</em> of <em class="calibre7">Mage Armour!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?" Harry asked skeptically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, not really. That's not how it works. But it's a simple
      enough lie that your unenlightened brain can handle it, now
      <em class="calibre7">stab the robes!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine!" Harry stabbed them. Much to his surprise, the knife
      simply glanced off the garment as if it were made of hardened
      steel. Harry frowned, and stared at the knife.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Eh? <em class="calibre7">Eh?</em>" Milo said. "What do you think? Cool, no?
      Totally ordinary Hogwarts uniform until <em class="calibre7">Blam!</em> I get
      attacked, and guess what? It's godsdamn invincible!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This must not be a very good knife," Harry said, ignoring Milo
      completely and staring at the dagger in his hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And that's not all!" Milo said. "It gives me +1 Caster Level to
      Conjuration spells!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I mean, it can't even cut through an ordinary school
      uniform."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That means a whole <em class="calibre7">six more seconds</em> of
      Hippogriff!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It <em class="calibre7">looks</em> sharp. I wonder if it's some sort of trick
      dagger?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or ten feet more range to <em class="calibre7">Glitterdust!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or maybe you had a metal plate hidden in that robe?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's a whole 20% more Caster Levels!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, then I'd have still cut the robe... must be the knife."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or 60% more with the Arcanist's Gloves!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe I should try and cut something else with it. That would
      tell me for <em class="calibre7">sure</em> if it was the knife or the robe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">And that's not all!</em> I added in Fire Resistance 5 as a
      custom bonus feature."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll go test it on the curtain of my bed, maybe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So now it, and by extension, I, am fire-proof!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, it works on the bed, that's for sure."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, maybe not fire-proof. More like fire resistant."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe I should test it on Ron's bed, too, just to be sure."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But it's more than enough to make me very nearly safe against
      conventional fire! With this, I can walk into a burning building
      for up to, on average, six minutes! Or if the dice are against me,
      only seventy-two seconds before burning to death. But that's still
      pretty good!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Works on Ron's bed just as well as mine. Maybe the knife is
      exceptionally good at cutting curtains, but suboptimal on cutting
      robes. There's only one way to be sure."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, I think, somehow, that I'm not getting through to you
      here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, it certainly seems capable of cutting Ron's spare
      robes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll go show Hermione," Milo said dejectedly. "<em class="calibre7">She</em>
      knows how to appreciate proper magic when she sees it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine, fine," Harry said distractedly. "I'll go visit Hagrid,"
      Harry said finally. "He's been a bit down ever since Quirrell
      killed his dog."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To say that Hagrid was 'a bit down' was rather like saying the
      Elemental Plane of Water was 'a bit damp.' He'd been aimlessly
      wandering the halls in tears since Hallowe'en, bemoaning the loss
      of his beloved omnicidal tricephalous monstrosity. Milo shrugged
      and walked down the stairs into the Common Room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">True to form, Hermione was curled up on an armchair reading a
      thick, dusty old tome.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey," said Milo. "Can I see that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmmm?" Hermione asked absently, not looking up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Scholar's Touch</em>," Milo muttered, tapping the book
      quickly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey!" Hermione said, pulling it away from him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Interesting," Milo said. "But, no matter how knowledgeable she
      is on the history of Goblin uprisings in Central Europe, she uses
      the word 'irregardless' twenty-four times. Just toss it in the fire
      like the kindling it is, would you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you just come here to show off, or was there something
      else?" Hermione snapped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Actually, there was something. I need you to—hang on," Milo
      said, pulling on his robes. "Okay. I need you to light me on fire.
      See, my robes are—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Incendio</em>," Hermione said, waving her wand in a
      complicated little pattern. A bright little jet of fire shot out of
      the tip of Hermione's wand, but dissipated as soon as it touched
      Milo's robes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm going to pretend that you waited for me to say 'my robes
      make me fire resistant' before you tried to immolate me," Milo
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I figured it was something like that," Hermione said absently.
      "Although, I had hoped otherwise. Don't touch my books."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll try to keep that in mind."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo saw Hannah sitting in the corner, looking at him for some
      reason. As soon as he noticed her, she abruptly looked away.
      <em class="calibre7">Well, there's weirdoes all over.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey," Milo said, walking over to her. "Whatcha up to?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just, uh, reading the <em class="calibre7">Tales of Beedle the Bard</em>," she
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's upside-down," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, really?" Hannah asked in alarm, glancing down at it. "No,
      it's not!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nah, but you checked. Anyways, look, there was something I'd
      been meaning to ask you for a while, now," Milo said. He wasn't
      quite sure how to go about this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes?" Hannah asked, her heart beating rapidly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, it's about something I've sort of been wondering about
      with regards to you," he said. "Something I just can't figure
      out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mmhmm?" Hannah said, not trusting herself to speak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was wondering—you remember that day in September, the first
      time we all had detention for Snape? We were cleaning statues,
      watched by the Baron?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah nodded quickly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then you vanished, and I lead the search to find you," (Hannah
      felt like she was about to burst) "and eventually had to enlist the
      aid of the Defence Professor and most of Hogwarts' portraits," Milo
      continued. "But eventually, we found you." Hannah just nodded
      again. "You were in the lake."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Hannah asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The lake. We found you in the Hogwarts lake. What on
      <em class="calibre7">Earth</em> were you doing there?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You came here to ask me about the lake." said Hannah
      flatly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yup," said Milo cheerfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, <em class="calibre7">look</em> at the time, I really must be going now,
      things to do, people to see, lakes to fall into, gotta run,
      cheerio, <em class="calibre7">bye</em>." Hannah gathered up her stuff and strode out
      of the Common Room like a woman with a purpose.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She went down one of Hogwarts' trick corridors," Hermione said
      idly, not looking up from her book. "It turned into a slide and she
      came out right into the lake. If not for the giant squid, I think
      we'd all be doing it on hot days. And that was a mean thing you
      just did."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, asking her how she got laked? I can't figure how you
      could put any malicious intent into <em class="calibre7">that</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Until you did right in front of me, neither could I," Hermione
      said, turning a page.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Should I go find her and apologize?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">No</em>. Absolutely not. Believe me, in this case, it's
      better to feign ignorance."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"People are weird," Milo said under his breath, staring out the
      window. Being the middle of winter in Northern Scotland, what he
      saw was mostly white. He could only see a few yards because
      snowstorms give a -1 to Spot every 2.5 feet. Milo resisted (barely)
      the urge to say, 'I'm sure everything's <em class="calibre7">all white</em>.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know," Milo said idly. "If I could take the covers off all
      the books in the library and stitched them together" (Hermione
      looked up at him in horror) "then I could read the whole lot with a
      single <em class="calibre7">Scholar's Touch</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think Madam Pince would have the books rebound with your skin
      as a warning to the rest of us," Hermione said. "And I'd be right
      there holding you down while she did. <em class="calibre7">Don't</em>—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Touch your books, yeah, I remember."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why don't you go make some more magic doodads or something?"
      Hermione asked testily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can't," Milo said. "You can only work on a Magic Item up to
      eight hours a day."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where on <em class="calibre7">Earth</em> did you find eight hours already today?
      We only got out of class an hour ago!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, what do <em class="calibre7">you</em> do in History of Magic?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I take notes, of course!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's what Mordenkainen's for," Milo grinned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You trust your <em class="calibre7">rat</em>," Hermione said, aghast, "to listen
      in class for you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"'Course. He wasn't doing anything else at the time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">How can your rat write?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Easy. He can speak to me in a sort of unique little language.
      The rules clearly state that '<em class="calibre7">A literate character (anyone but
      a Barbarian who has not spent skill points to become literate) can
      read and write any language she speaks. Each language has an
      alphabet, though sometimes several spoken languages share a single
      alphabet.</em>' Mordenkainen is, obviously, not a Barbarian; he can
      therefore write in an undecipherable code that only I can read,
      which, incidentally, looks a lot like Elvish."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione frowned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's a pretty shaky read of the rules, and—wait,
      <em class="calibre7">what</em> rules?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo snorted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When you people are taught to count," Milo said, "we're taught
      to abuse poorly thought-out rules."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You were in <em class="calibre7">lessons as a child</em> to abuse rules?"
      Hermione was horrified.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nah, skipped 'em all to fight kobolds in the sewers. Myra
      (cityoflight!cityof<em class="calibre7">magic!</em>) city law states that 'children
      under the age of twelve must attend school,' but it never said they
      had to 'attend school' more than once."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's mouth moved, but no words came out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's funny, I got an A in my Munchkinry course without ever
      showing up past the first lesson. All the students that showed up
      failed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Out!" Hermione said, throwing a cushion at him. "Just let me
      read in peace!" She reached for another cushion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo, despite having faced down an Acromantula, a Troll, dozens
      of Skeletons, and Kobolds and Goblins beyond measure, was
      disinclined to face a wrathful Hermione, and promptly utilized a
      strategic manoeuvre to leave the Common Room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm bored," Milo declared proudly as he exited the portal.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's nice," said the Fat Lady. "You should try hanging on a
      wall for several hundred years."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Boredom was a state so rare for an adventurer that decided to
      savour it for as long as he could. Being boredom, of course, this
      only lasted for about a microsecond before he was dying for
      something to do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey," Milo said suddenly. "You know about this world's quaint
      little culture, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know anything and everything that can be discovered by
      hanging on a wall, watching students walk past, and pretending not
      to hide a secret passageway. So, yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This <em class="calibre7">Christmas</em> thing," Milo said. "I'm led to
      understand that people give each other presents."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Correct," said the Fat Lady.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, when they say 'people'—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—that includes you, yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Crap."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And if, say, <em class="calibre7">someone</em> were to hypothetically upset a
      friend of theirs in the days leading up to this gift-giving
      holiday, and were, for some reason, recommended against direct
      apology—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is this friend female?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then the gift had better be damn special."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Crap</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have, what, eight days?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Seven."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd best get started, then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Correct."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The vast majority of Hogwarts' students went home over the
      holidays, and for those who remained, the two week break was a time
      to lie around in their respective Common Rooms, playing Exploding
      Snap and (for the less danger-inclined) wizarding chess.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not so for Milo, who spent day and night working on Christmas
      presents, researching spells, and 'resting,' (really, planning and
      setting traps for the arrival of the dreaded Santa Claws) each in
      exactly 8 hour increments per day. When Christmas Eve rolled
      around, Ron and Harry were surprised to see Milo, weary and
      exhausted, trudge zombie-like into their dormitory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blimey," said Ron, who was staying at the castle because his
      parents went to visit his brother Charlie in Romania, "we thought
      you'd gone home for the holidays."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where have you been?" Harry asked. "Nobody's seen you at
      mealtimes, in the Common Room, or even in bed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Christmas," Milo slurred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When was the last time you <em class="calibre7">slept?</em>" asked Harry,
      looking equal parts concerned and amused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Over a hundred thousand, eight hundred rounds ago," Milo said.
      People, from where he was from, were very good at telling time—but
      only in rounds, a unit of six seconds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you carrying, there?" Ron asked, pointing at a heavy
      bag Milo had slung over his shoulder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Christmas," Milo repeated, and slipped into unconsciousness in
      his four-poster bed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nutter," Ron said. "But at least he's on our side."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The residents of Gryffindor Tower awoke to an unpleasant
      surprise on Christmas morning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Glitterdust!</em> <em class="calibre7">Obscuring Mist! Summon 1d4+1
      Celestial Giant Fire Beetles!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah! Gerroff!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've gone blind!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He was <em class="calibre7">here!</em> Father Christmas was <em class="calibre7">here!</em> While
      I slept! Oh, <em class="calibre7">why</em> did I sleep? <em class="calibre7">Who let me sleep?</em>
      We didn't post any sentries! <em class="calibre7">Grease!</em>" Milo was standing in
      the middle of the dorm, casting offensive spells at random. The
      room was full of dense fog, concealing everything except for
      blindingly bright sparkling gold particles of magic and the red,
      glowing eyes of four giant beetles that were skittering about,
      clicking loudly. "We'll all be killed!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fortunately, Milo ran out of spells in about a minute, and the
      protesting struggles of Ron and Harry managed to convince him that
      Santa "Claws" wasn't about to jump out from under a bed and kill
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And that," said Ron, "is why you need to sleep more than once
      every eight nights. Happy Christmas, by the way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've got some presents!" Harry said in surprise, the small pile
      of wrapped gifts visible now that the dust had cleared and the
      noise had stopped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What were you expe—" Ron began, but Milo cut him off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—You don't <em class="calibre7">normally</em> get presents?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nah," said Harry. "This is the first time!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So... so... they're not <em class="calibre7">mandatory?</em> I didn't
      <em class="calibre7">have</em> to get you anything?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blimey," said Ron, "I don't think you've quite grasped the
      meaning of Christmas."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry groaned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If anyone suggests we go on an adventure to discover the true
      meaning of Christmas," he said, "I'm going to have to put my foot
      down."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"An adventure, eh?" Milo asked, his eyes alight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. <em class="calibre7">No</em>. No adventures," insisted Ron firmly. "We open
      presents. We have Christmas Dinner. We play games. We have fun with
      friends and family. That's <em class="calibre7">it</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," said Milo, looking downcast.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The first package opened was by Harry from his aunt and uncle.
      It contained something Milo had never seen before, something...
      unnatural.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What <em class="calibre7">is</em> it?" Milo asked, looking fascinated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I dunno," said Ron. "Look at the shape!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a fifty-pence piece," Harry said, biting down
      laughter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, where's the rest of it?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's all they sent."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, if this is a piece of the Fifty Pence," Milo said
      thoughtfully, "what happens when we combine all seven shards—there
      are seven, right? It's usually either seven or three—do we become
      masters of the Fifty Pence?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry doubled over with laughter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, mate, I heard my dad talking about this once," Ron said in
      hushed tones. "It's what Muggles use for money!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, <em class="calibre7">this?</em>" Milo asked. "It's not made of gold,
      platinum, silver, or even copper! How do they know how much it's
      worth?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My dad couldn't figure it out, either," Ron said. "He theorizes
      that Muggles have a sense that wizards lack that tells them how
      much their money is worth, and my dad's a professional."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I guess they'd have to have something to balance out their lack
      of magic," Milo mused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was in real danger of dying due to lack of air, he was
      laughing so hard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't trust it," Ron said. "If it's not made of precious
      metals, what's to stop people from just Transfiguring more of
      it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo gasped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They don't have <em class="calibre7">any</em> magic at all! They <em class="calibre7">can't</em>
      just Transmute or Transfigure money!" Milo was amazed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whoa," said Ron. "That's <em class="calibre7">mindblowing</em>. They can use
      <em class="calibre7">anything</em> as money, then. I should write my dad about
      this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the end, Harry let Ron keep the coin to show Mr Weasley, and
      turned to his other presents.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You got me new spectacles, Milo?" Harry asked when he opened
      Milo's gift. "They... look exactly my current ones."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So nobody will know the difference," Milo said, tapping the
      side of his nose in a conspiratorial way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er... thank you? I suppose a spare will come in handy," Harry
      said dubiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Put them on," Milo insisted. Harry, obligingly, slipped off his
      current pair and put on Milo's new ones.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blimey!" Harry gasped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They <em class="calibre7">look</em> like ordinary specs," Milo said, "but
      they're really Eyes of the Eagle. They give +5 to Spot—that means
      you can see things fifty feet away with the same level of detail as
      you could see something right in front of your nose without
      them—and, because they're enchanted using <em class="calibre7">my</em> form of
      magic, none of your wizards can tell that they're anything out of
      the ordinary."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stared at Milo for a moment, then his face broke into a
      wide grin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So I can wear them during Quidditch without breaking any
      rules!" he said. "Or at least, without getting <em class="calibre7">caught</em>.
      Thanks, Milo! These are <em class="calibre7">awesome</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You'll have to get a proper eye doctor to have the lenses done
      in your prescription, though," said Milo, who had asked Hermione
      earlier about how glasses worked. "Until then, the -2 penalty you
      incur will counter out some of the bonus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shouldn't be too much of a problem," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hope you like them," Milo said. "You <em class="calibre7">did</em> pay for them,
      after all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron, who was staring at Harry's gift enviously, sifted through
      his (rather large; he has a big family) pile of presents to find
      Milo's. Unwrapping it revealed an ordinary looking quill.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's it do?" Ron asked eagerly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It writes words," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's all?" Ron asked, sounding disappointed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah... but it does it all by itself. I made this one custom,
      it's my own invention. See, what you do is, you just tap it to a
      piece of paper or parchment or whatever to activate it. It'll
      immediately start copying whatever you were looking at when it
      started, and won't stop till it's done or after 2,500 words,
      whichever comes first. I figure it'll come in dead handy when
      you're copying Hermione's notes," Milo explained. "It'll even turn
      the page and keep going on the next one when necessary."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blimey," Ron gasped, holding the quill like it was a long-lost
      family member. "That's bloody <em class="calibre7">brilliant</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Only works once a day, though, so keep it away from parchment
      so you don't trigger it by accident. I call it the Pen of
      Plagiarism +5."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Plus five what?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing," Milo said unabashedly, "but where I come from, you
      can charge exponentially more for stuff if it's plus
      something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo turned to his presents, which, as it turned out, were (as
      far as he was concerned) even better than minor magic items. Each
      of Neville, Harry, Ron, and Hermione had decided independently to
      get him a huge package of Every Flavoured Beans.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think," Milo said around a huge mouthful of the bizarre
      sweets, "that I like this whole Christmas thing. A lot of work,
      though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry (wearing an emerald sweater knitted by Mrs Weasley) opened
      his last package. A silvery-grey, gossamer cloth floated out of it
      and fell to the floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron gasped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh," Harry said. "Looks like a cloak."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Put it on," Ron urged. "If it's what I think it is... well,
      there's only one way to find out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You," Harry said pointedly, "have been spending too much time
      with Hermione." Nevertheless, did, and promptly vanished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo and Ron both gasped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's an Invisibility Cloak!" Ron said, while Milo said "It's a
      <em class="calibre7">Cloak of Invisibility</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry pulled it off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why do they call it that?" he asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"'Cause it makes you invisible," said Ron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Duh," added Milo.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't <em class="calibre7">feel</em> invisible," Harry said skeptically.
      "Here, you put it on," he passed it to Ron, who held it reverently.
      True to form, Ron vanished as soon as he put it on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh," said Harry. "Don't see that every day."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do, actually," Milo pointed out. He usually prepared
      <em class="calibre7">Invisibility</em> once a day. "Oh! I've been meaning to test
      something, actually. Harry, put it on again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Harry complied, Milo cast <em class="calibre7">See Invisibility</em>. Harry
      appeared in front of him as a translucent shape.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excellent," Milo said. "Score one for my magic, for once."
      <em class="calibre7">Must be because of the vague wording of</em> See
      Invisibility<em class="calibre7">,</em> Milo thought. <em class="calibre7">It just says "reveals any
      objects or creatures that are invisible</em>," not <em class="calibre7">"creatures
      that are affected by</em> Invisibility."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did it come with a card?" Ron asked curiously. "Those things
      are <em class="calibre7">really</em> expensive; I wonder who would spend that much
      on you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rooted about on the ground for a moment, then produced a
      small note with a handwritten message.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Your father left this in my possession before<br class="calibre4"/>
      he died. It is time it was returned to you.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Use it well.<br class="calibre4"/>
      A Very Merry Christmas to you.<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That," Milo said, "is singularly unhelpful. Put it on the
      list."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was looking at the note strangely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's the matter?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing," Harry said. Milo shrugged, and began preparing spells
      for the day. Fortunately, his ... episode ... in the morning had
      come from <em class="calibre7">yesterday's</em> spells. Harry and Ron settled down
      to play a game of Exploding Snap.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey," Milo said suddenly, having finished renewing his
      allotment of spells. "Anyone know if Hannah's staying for the
      holidays?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh," said Ron. "Yeah, I think I saw her at dinner the other
      day, with Lavender Brown."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cool. Bye," Milo said, leaving the dorm abruptly. On his way
      out, he passed Fred and George, wearing matching Weasley
      jumpers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—and then we'll say '<em class="calibre7">we</em> know we're called Gred and
      Forge,'" Fred was saying in a low voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, hey Milo," George said as Milo passed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey," Milo said, barely giving them a glance. "Wait," he said,
      and turned. "Have either of you seen Hannah Abbot around?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," said Fred. "Last I saw, she was heading out of the
      Common Room."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," George added. "She was wearing a coat and scarf, so she
      was probably going outside."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, in <em class="calibre7">that?</em>" Milo asked, gesturing at the window.
      The snow was really picking up. "Didn't you try and stop her?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, but she ignored us. Don't worry, I'm sure she'll be—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—<em class="calibre7">all white</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo groaned, and not just because of the terrible pun. He was
      going to have to go out and find her to deliver her mandatory
      apology present. Milo hustled out of the Common Room and down the
      stairs to the Great Hall, pulling on parts of his Cold Weather
      Outfit from his Belt of Hidden Pouches as he went. On the way, he
      decided that his next project would be to make his uniform
      Shiftweave as well, which allowed it to transform into other
      outfits instantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo opened the massive Great Hall doors to find snow piled up
      to his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am <em class="calibre7">not</em> walking in that," Milo said. "<em class="calibre7">Fly</em>,"
      he cast, and suddenly felt himself become weightless. "<em class="calibre7">Locate
      Object—Hannah's Robes</em>," he cast, and felt a light tug to his
      right. Milo effortlessly floated up off the ground and through the
      heavy snow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Shouldn't she have left tracks?</em> Milo wondered, looking
      around. Of course, it was possible that the snow had filled them in
      already... but really, with snow that deep, she'd have to dig a
      <em class="calibre7">tunnel</em> to get around.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Something felt very wrong about this whole situation. The wind
      was picking up, and the cold began to bite effortlessly through
      Milo's robes (Milo decided an <em class="calibre7">Endure Elements</em> enchantment
      was in order as well). <em class="calibre7">You'd have to be suicidal to willingly
      venture out here</em>, Milo thought. <em class="calibre7">And she went alone?</em>
      Highly suspect.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Milo flew, skimming a few feet above the ground, he felt his
      <em class="calibre7">Locate Object</em> spell abruptly end.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Okay...</em> Milo thought, his teeth chattering. <em class="calibre7">Either
      she entered an area warded against Divination, she's surrounded by
      lead, someone dispelled my spell, or she's out of range.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Let's assume the first one is out, because there isn't much
      interaction between my magic and the local strain. It's possible
      their wards against detection would work, but improbable. My spell
      can't have been dispelled, because I'd have noticed when I made the
      opposed Caster Level check... unless the local equivalent doesn't
      allow a check.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo groaned. He really had no idea what happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Only one thing for it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Circle Dance,</em>" Milo cast quietly, swapping out
      <em class="calibre7">Summon Monster III</em>. <em class="calibre7">Circle Dance</em> is an obscure
      spell that locates the direction from you to a creature (much like
      <em class="calibre7">Locate Object</em> or <em class="calibre7">Locate Creature</em>) except that it
      had no range limit. However, it takes a minute to cast, burns a
      3rd-level spell slot, and only has an instantaneous effect—if the
      target moves, you won't have any idea. On the plus side, it gives a
      vague impression of the target's physical and emotional
      condition.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo spun in a circle with his eyes closed until he finished
      casting the spell, which left him feeling dizzy. He opened his
      eyes, pointing in the direction she was in, and <em class="calibre7">knowing</em>
      she was unharmed and, emotionally, perfectly content (which was
      concerning, but not the <em class="calibre7">most</em> concerning thing).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo groaned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was looking directly at the Forbidden Forest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Really</em>, he wondered, <em class="calibre7">why did I ever think this
      little trip</em> wouldn't <em class="calibre7">end up with me in mortal
      danger?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a sigh and a longing glance at the comfortable Gryffindor
      tower, now only a speck of light in the whiteout, Milo sped off
      towards the forest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo had just gotten past the edge of the forest when
      <em class="calibre7">Fly</em> ran out of duration, and he fell heavily in the
      snow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Should have known," he said, his teeth chattering, "that, if
      foul weather is mentioned, I'd soon be out slogging in it. The
      c-c-castle is making me c-c-complacent."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With difficulty, Milo cast another <em class="calibre7">Locate Object</em> on
      Hannah's clothing (swapping out the previously prepared
      <em class="calibre7">Invisibility</em>). To his surprise, she was somewhere behind
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At the start of a combat, all characters involved have to make
      an Initiative roll with a bonus based off of their Dexterity and a
      few other things. This determines the order in which combatants
      act—people who rolled higher on Initiative, due to luck or by
      virtue of possessing quick reflexes, act before those who rolled
      lower. This makes <em class="calibre7">Nerveskitter</em> (a 1st level spell which
      grants +5 to Initiative rolls) an extremely unusual spell, as it
      must be cast <em class="calibre7">while</em> rolling Initiative, or, in other words,
      <em class="calibre7">after</em> a character is aware that there is trouble but
      <em class="calibre7">before</em> his muscles have had time to respond to his
      commands. For someone such as you or I, this is patently
      impossible. A Wizard, however, is somehow capable of both speaking
      the verbal components <em class="calibre7">and</em> waving his hands about in a
      complicated gesture to cast the spell <em class="calibre7">before</em> he is
      physically capable of doing either.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Nerveskitter</em>," Milo cast, speaking every syllable
      simultaneously and in harmony, in blatant violation of the laws of
      common sense. He was surrounded by a brief blue glow, and rolled to
      the side just as a glowing red bolt of magic flew past the space he
      had previously occupied. The bolt hit a tree, pieces of bark flying
      away from the contact point.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Mirror Image</em>," he cast, and a pair of illusory Milo
      duplicates appeared next to him. The real Milo lay down flat in the
      snow, minimizing his visibility.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another red bolt of light hit one solidly in the torso, causing
      the image to fall to the ground, motionless.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo quickly ran through his options. He had no idea what the
      location or identity of his attacker was, which precluded the used
      of <em class="calibre7">Grease</em>, <em class="calibre7">Glitterdust</em>, or, in fact, any
      offensive spell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Summon Hippogriff,</em>" Milo cast. Hippogriffs could track
      by scent, so didn't strictly require vision. Milo grinned, happy
      that he had learned <em class="calibre7">Summon Monster III</em> after his battle
      with the Troll.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The proud horse/eagle hybrid appeared in front of Milo with a
      shriek and ran forwards. It got about ten feet before Milo saw a
      green flash, and the summoned monster keeled over, dead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Holy crap</em>, Milo thought. <em class="calibre7">They're using the Killing
      Curse</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Milo was running low on spells.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Okay,</em> he thought in a panic. <em class="calibre7">Okay. It's not so bad.
      They clearly can't see you, either, right? Or you'd be dead
      already.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few more curses flew over Milo's head and hit some evergreen
      trees, which promptly turned brown and withered, dropping
      needles.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">And they can cast more than one per round. Or there's three
      of them, ganging up on me.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">A desperate plan came to Milo's mind. None of his prepared
      spells would help him, as far as he could tell, so he had to use
      something he could cast without prior preparation—a Divination.
      Most casters believed Divination to be a soft school, but Milo knew
      better.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Divinations could kill.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">True Strike</em>," he cast, granting his next attack a +20
      to hit, which would be enough to hit an unusually petite fly at a
      distance from about here to Jupiter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">More curses flew over his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Guided Shot</em>," he cast, which allowed his next attack
      to ignore cover and concealment. Neither of these would help him
      target a <em class="calibre7">Grease</em> or <em class="calibre7">Glitterdust</em>, or even a
      <em class="calibre7">Fireball</em> if he knew how to cast it, as those were all area
      attacks. They would only help him with a direct attack, the kind of
      which required accuracy—also known as the type of spell Milo
      avoided like the plague.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So, instead of casting a spell at all, he drew his (so far,
      never used) Cold Iron dagger and threw it in a completely random
      direction. Milo's plan was to then cast <em class="calibre7">Locate Object</em> on
      the dagger, which did a paltry 1d4-1 damage (practically nonlethal
      against the targets Milo was used to), which would let him identify
      the location of his foe, so he could follow up with an arcane
      barrage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was only after the dagger left his fingers, and he had
      confirmed a critical hit for double damage, that he realized his
      mistake.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The dagger, guided by Milo's magic, had flown in exactly the
      same direction as his previous cast of <em class="calibre7">Locate Object</em>,
      which was still active, told him Hannah was standing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo heard a sickening thud, and the curses abruptly stopped
      flying.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
