<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 19: Visitors, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s16" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 19: Visitors</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Author's Notes: As promised, Bonus Chapter!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">EDIT: A helpful reviewer pointed out that in Britain, people say
      "anyway" instead of "anyways," something of which I had no idea.
      There's no way I'm going to be able to get all of the local slang
      and things right, but nevertheless, I went back and edited as many
      instances of those which I could find. Milo, coming from another
      world (which the fates have decided, extremely conveniently it
      would seem, speaks Canadian English) still says adds the "s." If I
      make any dialect-related slipups like that in the future, feel free
      to PM me (or drop it in a review, of course, but PM's are somewhat
      less embarrassing).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It's just another thing like Wizard/wizard and Red Cap/Redcap
      that distinguishes Milo from the locals.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Deciding that saying something 'tastes like Christmas Dinner'
      would be categorically impossible for a Dark Wizard utilizing their
      titular Dark Powers to mentally control an injured eleven-year-old
      girl, Milo had relented and returned Hannah's wand in order for her
      to magic up some fire to warm their freezing tent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was late—Milo wasn't sure <em class="calibre7">how</em> late, because his nap
      of unknown length had thrown his perception even of passing rounds
      and the sun went down <em class="calibre7">very</em> early this far north in the
      dead of winter—when they heard yet <em class="calibre7">another</em> audible crunch
      in the snow outside, waking Milo up from a deep sleep he hadn't
      quite realized he'd ever started.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo cursed (figuratively speaking—not a literal Curse. Milo
      briefly wondered if <em class="calibre7">that</em> was the reason the locals seemed
      to use the word 'cuss') under his breath, and not only because
      there was a decent probability that the Redcap's (or "Red Cap" as
      the locals called them) buddies had come to finish what the first
      one had started (or, perhaps, to finish off the first one,
      <em class="calibre7">yum</em>). He required eight hours of continuous,
      <em class="calibre7">uninterrupted</em> rest to prepare new spells and regain hit
      points, so his injuries (which would have certainly killed someone
      from Hannah's world) were <em class="calibre7">exactly</em> as painful and sore as
      they were however long ago it had been since they'd been
      inflicted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo glanced over at Hannah, whose eyes were wide and alert.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Well, we're screwed</em>, he thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo, as stealthily as he could (which is not, admittedly,
      particularly stealthy without any ranks in Hide or Move Silently),
      pulled his quarterstaff out of his <em class="calibre7">Belt of Hidden Pouches</em>
      and raised the tent flap very slightly. Unfortunately, he couldn't
      see anything but snow from his narrow window.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stay here," Milo said quietly to Hannah. "I'll go see what's
      outside."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah, her face pale and ashen, became determined.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," she whispered. "I've got a wand, and I can do magic, which
      is more than I can say for you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But—" Milo said, a hundred protests coming to mind. <em class="calibre7">You're
      not a PC. Your injuries are debilitating, mine are not. You're
      lower level. The spells you know are not combat optimized.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">But despite everything, the practical part of his mind agreed
      she <em class="calibre7">did</em> have a point. Hannah, despite being a novice at
      magic, had no limit on spells per day and even the simple Jinxes
      and Hexes that Hogwarts students used on each other to settle
      heated disagreements would be more effective than a quarterstaff
      wielded at a measly +2 BAB and a -1 Strength Penalty—at least, when
      used in the number that Hannah was capable of, which was
      infinite.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine, we'll go together," he said at last. "On three, we leap
      out of the tent and catch them by surprise—try to stay behind me,
      my robes are enchanted to protect me. I'll club anything that gets
      close, you hex anything that moves." Milo couldn't <em class="calibre7">believe</em>
      he was volunteering to tank damage so someone else could cast. It
      was just so<em class="calibre7">, so</em> wrong.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay," Hannah said, fear and excitement battling evident in
      almost equal parts in her voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And remember—you're braver than you think."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm braver than I think. I'm braver than I think," Hannah said,
      constantly repeating the words under her breath as she did in the
      Sorting Ceremony.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One... Two..." Milo took a deep breath. "<em class="calibre7">Three!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two heavily injured spellcasters did not so much
      <em class="calibre7">charge</em> out of the tent, which would have been, perhaps,
      more dramatically appropriate, as they did stagger out painfully.
      They were a pretty pathetic sight, and the only foes they would
      have intimidated would be those who were both squeamish about blood
      and who were in possession of excellent night vision.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To the heroes in question, however, it felt as if they were
      leading the charge in the Battle of Vienna, with the might of tens
      of thousands of heavily armed and armoured elite cavaliers at their
      back, all thirsting for blood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">WAAAAAAAGH!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wha' in the ruddy hell?" came a surprised, thickly accented
      voice from the chill darkness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mister Hagrid?" Hannah asked, stunned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Dancing Lights</em>," Milo cast, while Hannah cast Lumos.
      Four glowing white spheres of light shot out of Milo's hands,
      flying in a search pattern around their immediate vicinity while
      Hannah's wand tip glowed brightly. Hagrid's huge body came into
      clear view, holding his crossbow in one hand and Fang's leash in
      another.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wha' are <em class="calibre7">you</em> lot doin' out here?" Hagrid asked. "And
      is tha'—is tha' <em class="calibre7">blood?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo narrowed his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do I know you're <em class="calibre7">really</em> Hagrid?" he asked
      suspiciously, leaning heavily on his quarterstaff.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wha' kinda question is tha'?" Hagrid asked. "Yeh know another
      bloke o' my size who jus' happens ter have a crossbow an' a
      dog?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think," Hannah said quietly to Milo, "that we'd best trust
      him. He's kind of our only hope."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo still stared at him suspiciously, trying to decide what
      <em class="calibre7">he</em> would do if he had the ability to simply possess
      people—something he didn't, as he'd forsworn the Enchantment school
      altogether when he specialized in Conjuration. Presumably, powerful
      wizards and witches had some form of defence against mental
      intrusion—otherwise, Dumbledore would long since have been turned
      into a puppet of some Dark Wizard and used to rule the world.
      Likely, that ruled McGonagall, Snape, Flitwick, and Quirrell out as
      well as potential puppets (although, not as suspects necessarily.
      Milo needed another glance at his Plot flowchart just to remind
      himself <em class="calibre7">who</em> was currently trying to kill him). Hagrid, who
      apparently had no magical power of his own at all, was therefore an
      obvious choice to possess... at least, at first glance. If Milo
      were behind this, he'd simply choose another student. Obviously,
      the possessor was able to force his puppets to use spells the
      puppets would normally be unable to, which essentially bumped up
      any possessed student to Dark Master level of threat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So, assuming his possessor had, in fact, any brains at all (and
      Milo's numerous assumptions were correct), Hagrid was probably just
      Hagrid.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay," Milo said. "But be careful."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, can someone explain wha' the ruddy hell is goin' on?
      Actually, nevermind tha'," Hagrid said, looking closer at the
      extent of Hannah's and Milo's injuries. "We gotta get yeh up ter
      the hospital wing. Can yeh walk? Ah, nevermind, I'll jus' carry
      yeh. Yeh can explain on the way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hagrid hung his crossbow from a strap on his shoulder, and held
      out a big, meaty hand to Hannah and Milo. Neither he nor Hannah had
      the same level of friendship with Hagrid that Harry (and, to a
      lesser extent, Ron and Hermione) had developed, and the pair of
      them hesitated for a moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shrugged and climbed aboard, Hannah soon following
      suit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hagrid carried the pair of them in a surprisingly gentle manner,
      given his somewhat brutish appearance. On the way, Milo decided he
      might as well tell Hagrid what happened. Hannah, however, was being
      unusually silent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This morning, I heard that Hannah went out into the snow—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Are yeh mad, girl?</em>" Hagrid asked Hannah.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry," Hannah said in a quiet voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hang on Hagrid, it wasn't her idea. I went out after her—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Why</em> didn' yeh jus' tell Dumbledore? Or McGongall?"
      Hagrid asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er..." Milo said. Why hadn't he told anyone? In hindsight, what
      he'd done seemed remarkably stupid. "Anyways, I tracked her down
      with magic, eventually, but she tried to hex me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why would yeh do tha'?" Hagrid asked. "Ruddy bad manners, if
      yeh ask me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wasn't her choice, Hagrid," Milo said again, patiently. "she
      was being controlled by magic, or something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">What?</em>" Hagrid asked, and stopped moving. "Are yeh
      <em class="calibre7">sure?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, pretty sure alright," Milo said, Hannah's horrible,
      uncaring expression coming back to mind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We have ter tell Dumbledore," Hagrid said, and started moving
      again, this time at a greatly increased pace. Milo carried on,
      explaining about the encounter with the Redcap.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why didn' yer jus' use—" Hagrid began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh," Milo interrupted, not wanting to go into details about how
      he was a different sort of wizard. "Never quite got a hang of that
      spell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, wha' abou'—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope, nor that one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeh really gotta do more practicin'," Hagrid urged. "Them's
      <em class="calibre7">ruddy</em> simple spells."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah... I'll do that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"An' the Redcap's wha' hurt Hannah?" Hagrid asked, wading
      through the snow as if it wasn't there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo fell silent for a moment, at a loss for words. The terrible
      fear he'd felt when he'd first realized who his attacker was
      returned like a defeated Dark Wizard with access to the
      <em class="calibre7">Clone</em> spell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Hannah said. "Used Milo's knife on me. Fortunately Milo
      knows a bit of Muggle medicine, or..." she trailed off, and fell
      back into silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Firs' sensible thing yeh did all day," Hagrid said critically.
      "An' I'll be havin' a word with Flitwick. Healin' Charms ought ter
      be on the curriculum; ruddy useful, they are. Er. Not tha' I know
      firsthand, o' course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So," Milo said, wanting to press through this next awkward bit
      as quickly as possible, "I, er, killed the Redcap."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Though' yeh said yeh didn' have yer wand?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I used a big stick."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The other Red Caps aren' gonna like tha'," Hagrid said,
      concerned. "Bu' it explains Fang."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh?" Milo asked, curious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bou' a half hour ago, he made a righ' racket, so I let him out.
      Must've smelled its blood—Red Caps have a very distinct scent, yeh
      know. Led me righ' ter yeh. Migh' a' saved yer lives."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's... very convenient," Milo said, looking at the dog.
      Suspicions started to grow in his mind, but he shook them
      off—surely he was just being paranoid, seeing puppeteering behind
      every shadow. <em class="calibre7">Besides</em>, he thought, <em class="calibre7">why would the Dark
      Wizard have possessed the dog to help</em> save <em class="calibre7">me? Whoever it
      was clearly wanted me dead.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Unless...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo's brow furrowed, lost deep in thought despite the freezing
      cold and rumblings from Hagrid, who was still chastising them for
      being reckless.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Could it have been reconnaissance?</em> Milo wondered.
      <em class="calibre7">Did someone attack me just to find out how I'd fight back?
      Hannah</em> did <em class="calibre7">open up with Stunners, I think—although, why
      they're called Stunners, I have no idea, as they leave the target
      Unconscious, not merely Stunned—although she did fire off a number
      of Killing Curses as well...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">And in any case, if someone wants to find out how I fight,
      it can only be because they plan on fighting me themselves. Meaning
      they want me dead. Meaning they would have just left me to,
      hopefully, expire in the cold.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Something still felt wrong, though, although Milo couldn't quite
      figure out what it was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Regardless of their intentions</em>, Milo thought, <em class="calibre7">I may
      have revealed my hand. They saw</em> Glitterdust<em class="calibre7">,</em> Grease,
      <em class="calibre7">and</em> Summon Monster III<em class="calibre7">. They'll probably have worked
      out a counter to them by the time they challenge me in
      person—</em>and <em class="calibre7">they know about my last-ditch contingency
      plan...</em> Milo cursed himself. <em class="calibre7">Which can easily be countered
      by preventing me from speaking. And in any case,</em> Gating <em class="calibre7">in
      enough Efreeti to</em> Wish <em class="calibre7">myself into omnipotence would take
      minutes or hours, so is effectively impossible in the middle of a
      combat.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">So</em>, Milo thought as Hagrid carried him and Hannah to
      safety, <em class="calibre7">what would I do to kill me, given what I'd know about
      myself and the local magic?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The answer was surprisingly simple.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Surprise attack with an Avada Kedavra loaded with as many
      Attack Bonus-boosting buffs possible.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">To which the only defence was... what? To anticipate the attack?
      To not be there to begin with? <em class="calibre7">Death Ward</em> would counter
      the Killing Curse, but it was a Cleric spell. <em class="calibre7">Nerveskitter</em>
      would help him win on Initiative, but that wouldn't do much if the
      attacker had a Surprise Round.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo needed to have a good, long look at his spellbooks to
      determine what, if anything, he could do to counter such an
      attack.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A loud creak broke Milo out of his train of thought. With a
      start, Milo realized that they were already at the castle, and
      Hagrid had just pushed the main door open with his shoulder. Hagrid
      wasted no time carrying them up the stairs to the hospital wing,
      which Milo was starting to think of as a second home.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The giant groundskeeper rapped hard on the doors until Pomfrey,
      still in her dressing gown, opened it sleepily. She took one look
      at the children and sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What did he do <em class="calibre7">this</em> time?" she asked (Milo resented,
      somewhat, the implied accusation that it had been his fault—until
      he remembered that Hannah's injuries actually <em class="calibre7">had</em> been by
      his hand), but despite the exasperation evident in her tone, she
      had them lying down on the firm cots and checked over in record
      time—after shooing out Hagrid, that is, who didn't mind as he was
      leaving anyways to go find Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She gasped when she saw the extent of their injuries.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What <em class="calibre7">happened</em> to you?" she asked Hannah. Then, after
      thinking a moment, added "No, nevermind. Dumbledore will sort that
      out later; don't say anything." A few Healing Charms later and
      Hannah was out of the worst of it, albeit still exhausted and
      sore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And as for <em class="calibre7">you</em>," she said, turning back to Milo, "I
      think all <em class="calibre7">you</em> need is bandages, a Cleaning Charm to stave
      off infection, and prolonged bedrest, based on your rather
      <em class="calibre7">numerous</em> prior visits to my hospital wing." The truth was,
      though she didn't say anything, that she was afraid to do anything
      else—she lay awake at night in a cold sweat caused by wondering
      what the <em class="calibre7">hell</em> the reason was behind his physiology,
      especially his apparent super healing powers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But—" Milo protested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No buts. Now if you excuse me, I believe I'm shortly going to
      have to fend off the Headmaster, and it always helps to have a
      certain measure of mental preparation before attempting so daunting
      a task. You two just try and get some sleep."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The strict little mediwitch bustled off, muttering under her
      breath about how people never seem to require emergency medical
      attention at a <em class="calibre7">reasonable</em> hour, showing no consideration
      whatsoever. That left Milo and Hannah alone in the dark hospital
      wing (with the exception of the gently snoring Neville Longbottom,
      who had broken several ribs when Peeves had dropped a bust of some
      old, long forgotten headmaster on him. As it turned out, Peeves
      <em class="calibre7">had</em> actually, as far as anyone could tell, dropped it by
      accident. Go figure.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So," Milo started saying to break the awkward silence. "How
      about that local sports te—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why did you go looking for me?" Hannah asked. Then she paused
      for a moment. "I mean, before you knew I was out in the snow. Agh,
      you know what I mean."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right!" said Milo, who felt sort of dumb. "What time is it?"
      There was a clock on the wall, but he still couldn't make heads or
      tails of all the numbers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh," Hannah said, momentarily thrown. "It's, uh, 11:54. But
      what does—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, it's still Christmas?" he asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, for six—no, wait, make that five minutes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Awesome," Milo said, visibly relieved. "Okay, hang on a second,
      I need to find something." Sifting through the many pockets of his
      Belt of Hidden Pouches (technically, he could just hold his hand
      over it and order the belt to spit out whichever item inside that
      he wanted, but he wanted to stay out of the habit of doing things
      that way to prevent from announcing to the world what he was about
      to draw), he eventually found the small package he was looking
      for.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I had a lot of difficulty with this," Milo admitted. "See,
      where I'm from, we don't really give presents very frequently.
      People, well, Adventurers are least, tend to hoard their money and
      treasure and wouldn't dream of parting with it for anything. When
      we <em class="calibre7">get</em> presents, it's usually for, I dunno, rescuing the
      Prince's sister from bandits or clearing out a cave of Orcs. We
      tend to ignore holidays, and, frankly, I don't know what the NPCs
      do during them. So I'm kind of new to this whole Christmas thing;
      it's... bizarre. So I asked around, and from what I understand,
      most people buy something from shopkeepers that they think the
      recipient would enjoy. I tried that, at first, but ran into a
      number of difficulties—anything I wanted, I'd have to owl order,
      obviously, because there aren't any shops in Hogwarts. But also...
      this world is <em class="calibre7">strange</em>. I don't understand what any of the
      local wizarding stuff is or does, most of the time, so I wouldn't
      know what to buy or even where to <em class="calibre7">look</em> for what to buy.
      Back in Azel, there's strict price and production controls and
      <em class="calibre7">everybody</em> knows exactly what's for sale everywhere and
      that a bucket will <em class="calibre7">always</em> go for five Silver Pieces.
      They're posted in the Equipment Lists. And don't even get me
      <em class="calibre7">started</em> on the Muggle stuff; it's more foreign to me than
      Psionics."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah stared at him oddly, apparently not understanding some of
      the terminology but, generally speaking, getting the gist.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You didn't have to... I mean, you shouldn't have worried about
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was led to believe it was important," he shrugged. "Anyways,
      I came to the conclusion fairly quickly that if I was going to get
      you a present, I'd have to make it myself. The thing is, mundane
      stuff—er, non-magical, that is—can, from what I can tell, be made
      by Muggles better and faster than anything I could pull off, even
      if I used magic to help. But what I <em class="calibre7">can</em> make, and I'm
      pretty good at it, is Magic Items."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But, that sounds really expensive..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Eh," Milo shrugged. "I've got ways of making money fast, if I
      need to. That wasn't the <em class="calibre7">big</em> problem."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What was the big problem?" Hannah asked riveted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Every single Magic Item—and I mean <em class="calibre7">every</em> Magic Item
      that has <em class="calibre7">ever</em> been designed—is for killing, or in some
      manner facilitating the killing of, Goblins and Dragons and things.
      That, or for carrying their stuff away afterwards. Any other use is
      largely the result of happy accident or complete afterthought. And
      killing Goblins isn't something that you seem particularly
      interested in," Milo said, as if the notion was both unthinkable
      and unpleasant, "so I had to see if I could twist the purpose of
      already existing Magic Items for more... civilian" (Milo was about
      to say 'NPC,' but stopped himself at the last second) "purposes.
      And there were a few that could do that—I mean, this Belt of Hidden
      Pouches I have would be handy for <em class="calibre7">anyone</em>, right? Same with
      a Magic Bedroll or <em class="calibre7">maybe</em> a bag of Everlasting Rations."
      Milo paused for a moment. "Something with <em class="calibre7">Endure Elements</em>,
      now that I think about it, probably would have been a good idea.
      But anyways, everything I found, even then, required spells only
      available to Clerics or Druids or whatever. Wizards are usually...
      a bit more on the offensive side of things."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, it's totally fine if you didn't get me anything," Hannah
      said quietly. "I wouldn't have minded."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, the list of already designed Magic Items exhausted, I
      realized I had to design something from scratch, so I turned to the
      spells I <em class="calibre7">did</em> know to see what I could do. I had... similar
      problems. To a somewhat lesser extent, a Wizard's spells are almost
      <em class="calibre7">all</em> designed for combat; even the utility ones are mostly
      to help a Wizard get to—or, knowing Wizards, <em class="calibre7">away</em>
      from—combat. There was nothing that seemed particularly...
      <em class="calibre7">fun</em>," Milo said the last word as if it were from an
      unfamiliar foreign language. "So, I said, 'screw it!'" (Milo's
      actual wording, which he wisely decided not to repeat to Hannah,
      was somewhat different from this) "'I'll do what an Adventurer does
      best and combine spells that were never designed to be combined,
      gosh darn it!' And this, your present, is the result. But before I
      give it to you, I need an answer to a very important question."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's that?" Hannah asked, looking somewhat surprised.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's your favourite animal?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah thought about it for a moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hamsters," she said. "Definitely hamsters."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay," Milo said. "Cool. Just one second." Milo had left,
      literally, one second in the Magic Item crafting process unfinished
      when he'd originally made the item right before Christmas Eve. The
      result was the he could, at this point, still change any of the
      variables that had to be decided 'during item creation.' "Now, here
      you are, Hannah Abbot," Milo passed her the present, wrapped in
      festive-looking holiday paper. "Happy Christmas."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," she said, accepting the package and, not being one
      of those fussy people who simply remove the tape and leave the
      paper unblemished, tore the wrapping paper to pieces from the
      middle outwards in about a third of a second. Then she gasped.
      Inside, in a tiny box, was a tiny, fine (admittedly, somewhat
      lopsided looking) fragile-looking silver lily that could be
      attached to clothes by means of a minute pin on the back of the
      stem. An actual silversmith would shudder at the sight of Milo's
      somewhat crude handiwork, but, all told, it was pretty well done
      given that Milo didn't actually have in ranks in any form of
      Craft.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I made it by heating up a Sickle until it was malleable enough
      to sculpt," Milo said. "Couldn't have done it without those
      dragonhide gloves we have for Herbology and Potions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's beautiful," Hannah said, somewhat breathless. No doubt her
      perceptions were somewhat addled by her traumatic day, sleep
      deprivation, and whatever was in the potions that Pomfrey had
      prescribed for her, as the silver lily was could only be described
      as beautiful when using the loosest <em class="calibre7">possible</em> sense of the
      word.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shrugged, somewhat embarrassed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not really the point," he admitted. In truth, he'd made
      it out of silver so it could be used as an improvised weapon
      against Devils if necessary (it never hurts to be prepared, after
      all) but Milo decided, for some reason, against saying so at that
      precise moment. "If you tap it and say 'I'm bored,' it'll—actually,
      just tap it and say that you're bored and you'll see."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Looking at Milo curiously, Hannah complied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm bored," she said, tapping the silver pin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, right, you have to be wearing it first," Milo said. "Forgot
      about that part."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah, looking extremely curious, pinned the lily to the front
      of her robes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm bored," she repeated, with another tap. Suddenly, a small,
      fluffy, <em class="calibre7">impossibly</em> cute—in fact, almost sickeningly
      so—brown and white hamster appeared in her hands. "It's so
      <em class="calibre7">cute!</em>" Hannah squealed in the manner of little girls
      everywhere as the hamster scurried up her arm, chirping in a manner
      that would make <em class="calibre7">real</em> hamsters feel like they had to go and
      watch <em class="calibre7">Die Hard</em> while doing one-handed push-ups just to
      counter the sheer <em class="calibre7">adorability</em>. The hamster didn't have fat
      so much as it had <em class="calibre7">pudge</em>, fur so much as it had fluff, or
      eyes so much as it had big, glassy, shiny windows to your very
      soul. Simply seeing it required a Will save, or you were
      <em class="calibre7">compelled</em> to want to hug it (okay, not really, but it may
      as well have).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo was particularly proud about his little invention, which
      was simply a tricked-out Wondrous Item of <em class="calibre7">Unseen Servant</em>
      and <em class="calibre7">Minor Image</em> (both of which he had had to research
      specifically for this task) and a little <em class="calibre7">Detect Thoughts</em>.
      The <em class="calibre7">Servant</em>, which was a formless, invisible blob capable
      of moving around and exerting a limited amount of force, was
      surrounded with an illusory body of an animal chosen during item
      creation (in this case, a hamster), the specifics of which were
      chosen by using a brief <em class="calibre7">Detect Thoughts</em>-like effect on the
      pin's first user to find the form that user would find to be
      maximally cute. The <em class="calibre7">Servant</em> was then ordered to play with
      the user until dismissed, unless otherwise commanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This," Hannah said, the hamster running up her arm to the
      shoulder, "is the best Christmas present <em class="calibre7">ever</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you! Er, or you're welcome. I'm not actually sure which
      is applicable here," he admitted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I believe both are perfectly acceptable," Hannah said, stifling
      a laugh.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You just tap the pin and say 'Bye' and it'll go away until you
      reactive it," Milo explained. "It can do other stuff, if you tell
      it to, like carry or clean things."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Things like Hogwarts statues?" Hannah asked eagerly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Things <em class="calibre7">exactly</em> like Hogwarts statues," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," Hannah said again. "Really. I mean it, you clearly
      put a lot of effort into this. I was just going to get you a big
      pack of Every Flavoured Beans, 'cause of how much you enjoyed them
      on Hallowe'en, but now—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Every Flavoured Beans?!</em>" Milo's face broke into a huge
      smile. "I <em class="calibre7">love</em> those things."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah hesitated for a second.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, then I'll still get you a big pack of Every Flavoured
      Beans. I've got them up in the girls' dorm... I didn't give them to
      you already, because, er... well. It doesn't matter now, actually."
      <em class="calibre7">She must mean the week or so she wasn't talking to me 'cause I
      asked her about the lake</em>, Milo thought<em class="calibre7">. People are
      strange.</em> "You can have them in the morning."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sweet," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No pun intended?" Hannah asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo groaned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bye, hamster," Hannah said, tapping the pin, and the impossible
      cute critter vanished. Hannah hesitated for a moment, then said
      "I'd go over and give you a hug, or something," she looked somewhat
      embarrassed, "except that I don't think my legs really want to
      respond."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's okay," Milo said, feeling somewhat awkward. "I'll take a
      rain cheque."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good, good," Hannah said, and an awkward silence, punctured
      only by Neville's calm and consistent snoring, descended for a beat
      or three as Milo decided there was absolutely <em class="calibre7">nothing</em> more
      fascinating than his fingernails and Hannah examined the pin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, how about—" Milo said, while Hannah said "I think we
      should—" at the same time. They both, then, paused for the other to
      continue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You go first," they said simultaneously. They both looked
      around the room, for a while, waiting for the other to
      continue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was going to say we should maybe go to sleep," Hannah
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Same," agreed Milo.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, goodnight!" she said, and rolled over to face away from
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Goodnight."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">People are weird</em>, Milo thought again—and not for the
      last time, at that—and rolled over to do the same.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, you have defeated my minions!" Thamior the Thaumaturge
      spat, reaching for his pouch of fell spell components. "But—do you
      really think you can challenge <em class="calibre7">me</em>? You <em class="calibre7">fools</em>! For
      it is <em class="calibre7">I</em>, the Dread Ma—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait—Thamior?" Milo said as his companions reached for their
      weapons, "I'm confused."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is only natural, seeing as how you are a fool, fool!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's just that I thought Thamior was a male name," Milo said,
      his tone kept carefully neutral.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which is fitting, seeing as how I am, in fact, male," Thamior
      said, slightly confused—and evidently irritated at being
      interrupted in the middle of his monologue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you're an Elf," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have a talent for stating the obvious, fool! Unfortunately,
      it won't help you avoid joining my Legion of the Da—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I thought there weren't any Elf males?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You will pay for your insolence!" the purple-cloaked Thamior
      shouted, his eyes glowing red. "When I am god-emperor of all the
      multiverse, I will – wait, what's going on?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo felt a strange tingling sensation somewhere in his midriff,
      gradually growing to encompass his torso. In a panic, he looked
      down to find that, where his stomach should be, there was a slowly
      growing sphere of darkness, occasionally crackling with what looked
      like green lightning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gah!" Milo said, the sphere growing to reach his neck. "What
      did you—how did—<em class="calibre7">I won Initiative</em>, damnit! This isn't
      fair!" but Thamior looked just as surprised as Milo felt, and was
      backing away slowly from him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a brief flash of blindingly bright light, and Milo
      suddenly felt cold all over. His lungs strained painfully, trying
      futilely to find air, and his brain screamed at him that things
      were very, <em class="calibre7">very</em> wrong. Gravity seemed to tug at him
      inconsistently in every direction, before finally agreeing to pull
      him backwards. He struggled, swinging his arms wildly to try and
      find something solid, anything, until...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">—<em class="calibre7">Thud</em>—</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo sat bolt upright clutching his side where just a moment
      before, the sphere of blackness had begun to grow. To his surprise,
      he realized both his hands were wrapped around his Belt of Hidden
      Pouches.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked around, expecting danger, but saw instead only the
      depressingly familiar sights of the Hogwarts hospital wing. He
      blinked, realizing it was only a dream... and a weirdly vivid one,
      at that. Milo couldn't, this time, speak from experience, but from
      what he'd heard from other Adventurers, dreams that were more like
      flashbacks were always important to the plot. The only thing was,
      in this case, he couldn't figure for the life of him how this could
      be so.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo wasn't sure how long he was staring at the ceiling, trying
      to figure out what the Hells was going on, what had brought him
      here, and just what the significance of his dream was when he
      realized he wasn't alone. (Well, he <em class="calibre7">knew</em> he wasn't
      alone—Neville's rumbling snores, unfortunately, made sure of that.
      Also, Hannah. Okay, he <em class="calibre7">obviously</em> wasn't alone. What Milo
      <em class="calibre7">meant</em> to think was that there was someone else,
      <em class="calibre7">awake</em>, in the hospital wing with him. You <em class="calibre7">could</em>
      consider cutting him some slack, of course, seeing as how he just
      woke up).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor?" Milo asked curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"M-Milo," Professor Quirrell, standing by the door, stammered.
      "I w-was just checking in on y-y-you, to s-s-see if you would b-be
      up for the D-Duelling C-Club on Sunday."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's..." Milo did some rapid arithmetic. "Four days from now?
      Definitely. I'll be up and about by tomorrow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I-indeed?" Quirrell asked, surprised. "Y-your injuries l-look
      m-m-most severe. I s-s-see the good M-Madam P-P-Pomfrey has opted
      n-not to use m-magic on you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shrugged painfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can heal anything short of death in about a day, if I have
      help. I think Pomfrey's afraid of how your magic will interact with
      my... well, with me, I guess."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"W-well," Quirrell said, glancing at the clock. "I'm afraid that
      I h-have to r-r-run; the D-Doxies in the d-d-dungeon won't ch-chase
      themselves out. I w-wish you a speedy r-r-recovery, and, to that
      end, left y-you a present," Quirrell gestured at a box of Chocolate
      Frogs on Milo's bedside table. "G-goodbye."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Erm. Bye! Thanks," Milo said. The DADA professor walked out of
      the room at about a half-step faster than normal walking speed,
      presumably to avoid a lecture from Pomfrey. Milo waited for the
      door to close behind him, then turned to the frogs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Detect Poison</em>," he cast, just in case. When they
      turned out to be clean, he stashed them in his Belt for later. Milo
      glanced at the heavy mechanical clock on the wall, noting that,
      while he could tell that the little hand was pointed at just past
      the six and the big hand was pointing at the three, he had no idea
      what that was supposed to mean. Deciding it didn't really matter
      one way or the other, Milo figured he ought to just go back to
      sleep.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Only a few minutes passed before Milo heard the door creak
      open.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Back, Professor?" Milo asked, sitting up despite his protesting
      muscles and various grievous wounds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Front, Student?" came an aged, grandfatherly voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Headmaster?" Milo asked, genuinely surprised, as Dumbledore
      walked calmly up to his bed, dressed in his signature purple robes
      and half-moon spectacles. "I thought Madam Pomfrey—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What the good mediwitch said to me was, in fact, and I quote,
      'you won't be bothering any of my patients <em class="calibre7">tonight</em>,
      Headmaster, Supreme Mugwump or no.' As it is, in fact, now the
      morning and not, in fact, the night, her prohibition is no longer
      in effect." Dumbledore paused for a moment. "But, ah, it is
      entirely possible that she would not, in fact, see eye-to-eye on my
      interpretation of her command, so if you would be so good as to
      keep your voice down...?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure," Milo responded quietly. "What brings you here? And, more
      importantly, why did you say 'Front, Student?'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was taking, as it were, a shot in the dark at what I had
      guessed—incorrectly, as it would appear—might be a social custom
      from your homeland. You see, you said, 'Back, Professor,' so I
      thought that, perhaps, the correct response was to, as is the
      custom among a small tribe of Merfolk living in a pond in Kashmir,
      to say the precise <em class="calibre7">opposite</em>. Alas, as is so often the case
      when one ventures into the murky grounds of speculation, I was
      incorrect. And as to your first question, I am here, as you can
      surely guess, to question you about the events of yesterday."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, that. It's fairly straightforward," Milo said, and gave
      Dumbledore a rather more accurate version of the story than the one
      he gave Hagrid (lying to Dumbledore's face seemed, to Milo, about
      on par with kicking a Lantern Archon). To his credit, Dumbledore
      sat patiently, listening to the entire story through until the end
      before asking questions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—and then Fang led Hagrid to us, and he carried us back to the
      castle," Milo finished. "Speaking of which, I'm going to need to go
      back at some point to get my rope and stuff. Made by Elves, you
      know." Or at least the sign had said so. In truth, it was hard to
      find rope <em class="calibre7">anywhere</em> that wasn't claimed to have been made
      by Elves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"By Elves? One day, when we both are free from the constant
      pressings of urgent business, I would greatly enjoy listening to
      you tell me all about the strange land from which you hail. But,
      until then, some much briefer answers to more specific questions
      will have to suffice. First, could you explain to me
      <em class="calibre7">exactly</em> what the effects are of the Charm you cast on
      Hannah to free her from the effects of her mental control?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure," Milo said. "<em class="calibre7">Protection From Evil</em>. Right now, it
      lasts up to five minutes, but I can push that to seven with these
      gloves," Milo held up his gloved hands, wiggling his fingers
      somewhat, "and for the duration, the target can't be affected by
      any form of mental control. When the spell ends, the control starts
      up again. Also, they can't be touched by summoned non-Good
      monsters."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fascinating," Dumledore said. "That little spell of yours would
      have saved the Ministry a great deal of trouble over the
      years."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"May I counter with a question of my own?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course you may," Dumbledore said, "but whether I shall
      answer or not is, I am afraid, another matter entirely. I can
      promise this: everything I say shall be the unblemished truth."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can you tell me how Hannah was being controlled, who did it,
      where they live, and how well protected they are?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore laughed softly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was four questions, you realize, and I am afraid that I am
      only able to answer the first. I cannot be sure until I question
      Miss Abbot directly, of course, but I am quite certain that she was
      the unfortunate victim of one of the darkest forms of magic known.
      You already have, unfortunately, witnessed the use of the most
      terrible of the three Unforgivable Curses, the Killing Curse." Milo
      nodded. It was the first spell he'd seen cast by the wizards of
      this world, in fact. "The curses are so-called because the use of
      one on a human being is enough to warrant a life's sentence in
      Azkaban, the wizard prison. Normally, the specifics of the
      Unforgivables are not learned until a student's Sixth Year, but in
      your case, I fear you may well be in danger without being
      forewarned. Along with the Killing Curse are the Cruciatus Curse,
      which causes extreme pain in its victim, and the Imperius Curse.
      This last one, despite being the most pleasant for the unfortunate
      victim, has caused more disasters, deaths, and crises than the
      other two put together, directly or indirectly. The Imperius curse
      allows direct mental control over the target for, if necessary,
      years at a time. Used by a skilled wizard or witch, is almost
      impossible to detect and even harder to resist."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean, it doesn't allow a Will Save?" Milo asked,
      incredulous. Such a spell was too powerful to <em class="calibre7">exist</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm afraid I don't altogether understand the question,"
      Dumbledore admitted. "Who is Will, and why does he need
      saving?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh," Milo said. "I mean, it can't be fought off with strength
      of will alone?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, it is <em class="calibre7">possible</em>," Dumbledore conceded, "but only a
      handful of exceptionally strong-willed individuals are able to do
      so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're <em class="calibre7">kidding</em>, right?" Milo asked. These wizards were
      <em class="calibre7">insanely broken</em>. A spell that killed on a touch attack
      without a save was bad enough—at least you had to be hit. But add
      in a spell that lets you Dominate someone indefinitely <em class="calibre7">and</em>
      had, apparently, an incredibly large bonus to its DC? Milo was
      briefly surprised that the whole Ministry wasn't run by Dark
      Wizards, before remembering how many pies Lucius Malfoy had his
      fingers in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Well</em>, he thought, <em class="calibre7">that would explain why people
      don't seem to realize how obviously evil he is. Anyone with any
      power is probably his thrall already</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A frightening image came to Milo's mind of a thin, pale spider
      sitting in a large, dark room, surrounded by thousands of silken
      spider webs, from each of which dangled a major Ministry official
      like puppets. Milo realized he was badly mixing his metaphors, but,
      under the circumstances, had other things to worry about.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So... what do you do about it?" Milo asked. "What's the
      counter-strategy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There isn't much," Dumbledore admitted. "Keeping a close eye on
      one's associates and friends to see if they begin acting strangely,
      occasionally checking if they still remember past events, that sort
      of thing. It is, at best, only moderately effective."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo paled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And now, you see why it is that knowledge of these curses is
      kept to the upper year students," Dumbledore said. "But now, I have
      another question for you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hit me," Milo said, trying to keep his mind from the horrifying
      implications of the Imperius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think I will refrain from doing so," Dumbledore said, "as
      corporal punishment has generally more frowned upon now than it was
      in the days of Emeric the Evil. Why did you go out in search of
      Miss Hannah Abbot yesterday morning?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Milo said. "I thought I mentioned. I had to give her her
      Christmas present."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fascinating as that is, that is not precisely the answer I was
      looking for, as I think you know. To clarify: why, after you
      discovered that Miss Abbot had left the building, did you head out
      in search of her?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought something seemed wrong," Milo said, "and that she
      might be in trouble. And before you ask, no, it never occurred to
      me to ask a teacher for help."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And why is that?" Dumbledore pressed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Same reason as with the 'Troll,'" Milo explained, as if it were
      obvious. "It's what I do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I rather think not," Dumbledore said. "After Hallowe'en, you
      explained to me—and I have reason to believe you were telling the
      truth—that you challenged the Troll rather than doing the sensible
      thing and running away because <em class="calibre7">fighting monsters</em> was, as
      you say, what you do. You said, when I asked you then whether it
      was to protect innocent lives, that that was not the case and doing
      so was only a... a 'perk' was, I believe, the word you used."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's your point?" Milo asked, not used to prolonged
      conversations with NPCs and not fully realizing that he was being
      rude.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you have any inkling, when you left, that a monster or Dark
      Wizard was involved in Hannah Abbot's mysterious exit?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo thought about it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," he admitted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you suspect, at that point, that she was being forced
      against her will?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo scratched at his itchy bandages, playing for time.
      Eventually, he was forced to admit that he hadn't suspected
      anything of the sort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, as far as you knew, she had simply been exceptionally
      foolish and wandered out into the snow in harsh winds and subzero
      temperatures?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I hadn't really thought about it," Milo admitted, "but if
      someone had asked me right then why I thought she was outside,
      that's probably how I would have answered."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you went looking for her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," Milo said, still not entirely sure where this was
      going.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not to fight monsters."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope," Milo agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But to protect an innocent life?" Dumbledore asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I... suppose so? To protect Hannah, mostly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a start," Dumbledore said. "And you didn't do it because,
      from a cold, mechanical perspective, she would be of some use to
      you? Perhaps, in your crusade against Evil?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Milo said. "I can't see how she would be. Her talents lie
      in other directions," Milo said, feeling, for some reason, a bit
      defensive about her. "Not everyone has to be good at fighting to be
      worth saving, Headmaster."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I feel, and feel free to correct me if I am wrong, that that
      may not have been the answer you gave me when we first met."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She's my friend," Milo said. "I've always protected my..." he
      trailed off. He had been about to say 'I've always protected my
      friends,' but, now that he thought about it, he'd never really
      <em class="calibre7">had</em> friends. He protected his partymembers, of course, but
      that came with the job description, like fighting monsters.
      Hannah... Milo was, for once, unsure of her PC/NPC status, but was
      fairly sure that she wasn't, exactly, in the party. But didn't that
      make her, by definition, an NPC? Milo went cold. He'd risked his
      life to save an NPC without any hint or hope of a reward. He'd
      spent days, thousands of Gold Pieces, and hundreds of XP working on
      a Magic Item to simply <em class="calibre7">give</em> to an NPC because he'd hurt
      her feelings. He <em class="calibre7">actually</em> cared about what an NPC felt.
      What the <em class="calibre7">Hells</em> was happening to him?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo felt queasy. <em class="calibre7">I didn't even loot the corpse!</em> He was
      stunned. He'd simply <em class="calibre7">thrown away</em> the Redcap's sword, which
      could have probably got him <em class="calibre7">at least</em> 10 gp, assuming it
      counted as a Short Sword. And who knows what <em class="calibre7">else</em> the
      grotesque abomination had been carrying? Milo was disgusted with
      himself. He'd let his emotions run away with him, getting in the
      way of good old pragmatic greed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think," said Dumbledore, "what you are feeling, right now,
      and it may be that you are experiencing it for the first time and,
      as such, it is confusing you, is an aspect of a form of magic more
      ancient and powerful than any that Voldemort himself
      possesses."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">What?</em>" Milo gasped. "<em class="calibre7">Detect Magic</em>," he cast,
      but nothing happened. For a brief, horrible moment he wondered if
      this mysterious magic that had apparently so addled his brain had
      also disabled his spellcasting. Then he realized he was simply out
      of spells, even Cantrips, until he could prepare new ones. "What
      kind of magic? Dispel me! <em class="calibre7">Dispel me, Dumbledore</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore chuckled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Even if I could," he said, "no power on Earth could compel me
      to do so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you mean to say that <em class="calibre7">you're</em> behind this
      insanity?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, Milo, the power of which I speak, the power that Voldemort
      so casually disregards, the power which was his undoing eleven
      years ago, the power which is, currently, already drawing you under
      its influence and subtly altering your perception of the world and
      your actions, is, you will find, quite beyond the reach of any
      mortal magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you <em class="calibre7">do</em> have deities around here!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The power of which I speak, young Milo, is love."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo stared at him in utter silence, his jaw hanging open,
      trying to work, but no sound came out. In the end, Milo had to make
      a Concentration check simply to focus the necessary thought to
      activate his vocal cords.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Bull</em>. <em class="calibre7">Sh</em>—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think," said Dumbledore, "that I will so rudely head you off
      before you finish that thought."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Love." Milo said flatly. "You-Know-Who was brought down by the
      Power of Love. Maybe instead of learning magic, we should be
      putting flowers in our hair and frolicking in the forest like those
      pointy-eared pansies and singing around campfires. Voldy would be
      <em class="calibre7">powerless</em> to resist our Flower Power."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If that stretches your credulity, perhaps, I could more clearly
      state that it was love which triggered ancient and powerful
      protective magic," Dumbledore said calmly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, well why didn't you say so in the first place?" asked Milo.
      "Ha! I'd love to have seen the expression on
      He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named's face when a throwaway, poorly
      thought-out rule from an obscure splatbook that he never even
      bothered to read blew up in his face."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why do you say it was poorly thought out?" Dumbledore asked
      curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It allowed an infant to defeat the most powerful Dark Wizard
      that ever lived," Milo said, as if the reason were obvious. "That's
      got to be the most broken rule in <em class="calibre7">existence</em>. I gotta get
      me some of that. What, <em class="calibre7">exactly</em>, happened to trigger
      it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Normally, I would leave this for Harry himself to tell you, but
      in this case, the story is quite well-known. You see, Voldemort was
      defeated because Harry's mother sacrificed her life to protect her
      son out of love, which placed a protection upon Harry that
      Voldemort was unable to overcome."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo paused, the implications of this dawning on him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How on the Prime Material did You-Know-Who <em class="calibre7">ever</em> get to
      be that powerful in the first place, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not sure I completely understand your question. Voldemort
      used a combination of subterfuge, cruelty, devoted followers, and
      powerful magic to—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I mean... I'm obviously no expert on the subject, but do
      mothers here not care about their children?" Milo asked, still
      perplexed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course they do," Dumbledore said. "I should think that the
      story I just told you was proof of that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do Dark Wizards not kill infants, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unfortunately, innocent children are no safer from their evil
      than fully trained wizards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then <em class="calibre7">how</em>, in the name of the Eternal Library of
      Boccob, did You-Know-Who—and Grindelwald, and all the other Dark
      Wizards that ever lived—manage to rise to power without, at some
      point, attempting to kill a child that their mother died to
      protect? I mean, how many mothers <em class="calibre7">wouldn't</em> die to protect
      their children? <em class="calibre7">Especially</em> if they lived in a world where
      doing so made their child <em class="calibre7">literally</em> invincible to dark
      magic." Milo was idly wondering if he could work something like it
      into his backstory, which would neatly solve his problem of dealing
      with the Killing Curse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore opened his mouth as if to answer, but, before he
      could, the door slammed open.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Out!</em>" shrieked an irate Madam Pomfrey. "I won't have
      you bothering my patients! They need to <em class="calibre7">rest in
      peace</em>—wait, poor choice of wording... they need <em class="calibre7">peaceful
      rest</em>, not to be bothered by constant questions!" Ironically,
      while Dumbledore was speaking quietly and softly, it was Pomfrey's
      tirade that woke up the sleeping Hannah and Neville.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blast," said Dumbledore quietly. "Rumbled, it would seem." He
      stood up, and walked slowly towards the mediwitch, hands
      outstretched in a calming gesture. "Ah, my dear Madam Pomfrey, just
      the witch I was hoping to see. Did I ever tell you how exceptional
      I've always found your work?" He put an arm on her shoulder as he
      walked to the door, evidently hoping that she'd be taken in and
      follow him out. She looked briefly mollified, then her eyes
      hardened again and she brushed his arm off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">No!</em> I'm on to your tricks, Headmaster! Don't think you
      can silver-tongue your way out of things <em class="calibre7">this</em> time!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alas," Dumbledore sighed. "Foiled again. Might we, at least,
      continue what I'm certain will be a most <em class="calibre7">pleasant</em>
      discussion outside, so as not to disturb your patients
      further?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pomfrey threw a quick, surprised glance at Hannah and Neville,
      who were looking around blearily to find out where the war had
      started and whether they ought to go and find helmets and a
      foxhole.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps that would be, er, for the best," Pomfrey said in a
      much quieter voice, and followed the Headmaster out, having lost
      the initiative. Dumbledore glanced over his shoulder and winked at
      Milo, then walked out with the somewhat bemused-looking healer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why was Doreumble... Dormble... Dumbledore here?" Hannah asked,
      fighting down a yawn.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He wanted to ask me about yesterday," Milo explained. "He'll
      probably come back later to talk to you about it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," said Hannah, who, if truth be told, would be just as happy
      forgetting it had ever happened. Then she shrugged, and went back
      to sleep.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo, whose brain was wracked with too many unanswered
      questions—Dumbledore, Milo had noticed, had an unfortunate habit of
      answering a question in a way that provoked twelve more—started
      memorizing spells simply to clear his head. Unfortunately, the
      arcane sigils in his book kept blurring together and dancing in
      front of his vision for him to make much progress there, and he
      grudgingly set aside his spellbook for later. He hadn't had trouble
      preparing spells since he was apprentice level.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">So, I've been bewitched, have I? Enchanted by powerful and
      ancient magic that's compromising my ability to think logically.
      There must be some cure...</em> Break Enchantment <em class="calibre7">probably
      wouldn't even do it, as it only works on spells of fifth level or
      lower. This</em> love magic <em class="calibre7">business sounds closer to ninth
      level. Assuming magic here even</em> has <em class="calibre7">levels, of course.
      Maybe there's some cure to be found in the local magic...
      Dumbledore said there wasn't, but not even he can know everything,
      right? Maybe if I—</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey," Neville said abruptly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, hi, Nev," Milo responded. "What's up?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, you looked busy earlier, but now that you're not studying
      anymore, I thought I'd ask what happened. You and Hannah look
      pretty beaten up, I mean. Did Peeves do something?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I got gutted by a Redcap with a sword."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," said Neville. "Wow. Why didn't you just pull out your wand
      and cast—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Didn't have time," Milo lied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shame, 'cause it's a dead easy spell. Even I can do it, and I'm
      rubbish at, well everything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We should probably be quiet," Milo said. "Hannah's trying to
      sleep. <em class="calibre7">Damnit</em>, I did it again!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did what?" Neville asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh. Nothing," Milo said, having forgotten that NPCs could hear
      you when you weren't speaking directly to them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're right, though, of course," Neville said. "You can tell
      me all about it later."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo lay back, cursing his confused brain. Everything had seemed
      so simple a few months ago. PCs help you defeat monsters and get
      treasure, NPCs <em class="calibre7">give</em> you treasure for defeating monsters.
      Everything was becoming so tangled lately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And his combat skills must be going rusty as well; that Redcap,
      judging by the XP he earned, was only CR 2. He'd nearly
      <em class="calibre7">died</em> fighting it, which was completely unacceptable. The
      problem, looking at it in hindsight, was obvious: Milo's spell list
      was carefully optimized for what he had previously considered to be
      a typical combat. As a Wizard, his job was to neutralize as many
      enemies as possible in the first few rounds of combat so that his
      partymembers with knives and pointy sticks could move in and do the
      actual <em class="calibre7">damage</em> unimpeded. To that end, he preferred spells
      that could make as many enemies as possible as useless as possible
      as quickly as possible—thus, <em class="calibre7">Grease</em> and
      <em class="calibre7">Glitterdust</em>. But lately, he'd been involved in a lot of
      solo encounters, and Milo just wasn't capable of dishing out the
      kind of damage necessary to finish off an enemy—which is why he'd
      had so much trouble with the Troll and the Redcap. It meant he had
      to burn a much larger number of spells per enemy than he normally
      would, and, as a result, ran out of ammo precipitously fast.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I should stop going out alone," he realized. "I need backup.
      That and the capability to rain down fiery doom, just in case."
      Milo briefly considered <em class="calibre7">Fireball</em>, but realized that at his
      current level, the much more toned down <em class="calibre7">Kelgore's Fire
      Bolt</em> would deal the same amount of damage without the same
      possibility for collateral damage. Also, being a Conjuration spell,
      he would get a few bonuses from his specialty school.
      <em class="calibre7">Fireball</em> would take longer to research, being a 3rd level
      spell (Kelgore's little toy was only 1st level) so Milo opted to
      begin research on <em class="calibre7">Kelgore's Fire Bolt</em> now and get
      <em class="calibre7">Fireball</em> afterwards—and maybe <em class="calibre7">Scorching</em> or
      <em class="calibre7">Seeking Ray</em> after that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Thinking about spells, tactics, and general optimization had put
      Milo back into his more usual mindset, and he opted to continue
      memorizing spells.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few minutes after the requisite hour had passed, the door
      opened again to reveal yet more visitors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Ron walked in. Ron looked part worried and part
      excited, while Harry just looked distracted. Ron, to Milo's
      delight, was carrying a platter laden with toast, butter, and
      tea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blimey!" said Ron. "What happened? We were worried when you
      didn't come back at night, but figured you'd just gone off to work
      on something mad like you usually do. Next morning, Dumbledore
      <em class="calibre7">himself</em> walks into the Common Room and asks us to take
      breakfast up to you and Hannah—hi, Hannah" (Hannah had woken up
      when they entered, and was staring at the food with undisguised
      greed) "—and <em class="calibre7">blimey</em> you look terrible." Ron was, however,
      carrying food, so Milo decided to let him live—this time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Harry said distractedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shrugged, and for the third time told the story again,
      glossing over the part where he'd accidentally knifed the girl now
      sitting a few feet away from him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I reckon you couldn't have just driven the Red Cap off
      with—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Milo sighed, resolving to punch the next person who
      suggested using one of the local wizards' simple anti-Redcap
      spells. "I can't cast those, remember? Anyways, what's up with you
      two?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry's off in his own little world," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is he?" Ron asked, looking over his shoulder at the
      Boy-Who-Lived, who had been staring absently at one of Milo's bed
      fixtures. "You're right," Ron said, surprised. "He <em class="calibre7">is</em>. Oi!
      Potter! What's going on in there?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I saw my parents last night," Harry said reluctantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, like in a dream?" Milo asked. "'Cause they seem to be
      going around."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry said. "In a mirror."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
