<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 21: Bewitched, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s18" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 21: Bewitched</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Author's Notes: Sorry for the lateness (and, again, shortness)
      of this chapter! I'm still flat-footed from my trip. Since Term is
      starting, I'll be switching to Sundays for updates (thus giving me
      Saturdays to write). Once again, this chapter was only briefly
      edited, so please forgive any errors! I'll try to fix things over
      the course of the week. Things should be back to normal in terms of
      length and grammar for the next chapter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Also, an extremely helpful fan has shown me a workaround for a
      problem I've been having with myth-weavers, so I might be able to
      post chapterly character sheet updates. We'll see how things
      go.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You reckon we should go after him?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In a minute," Ron said absently, still staring at the
      Mirror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's just ..." Harry said. "I dunno, he seemed a bit, well,
      off."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure he's fine," Ron said, making a vague gesture.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Looking into a mirror that shows your heart's desire and
      screaming your head off doesn't seem particularly <em class="calibre7">fine</em> to
      me," Harry said with growing certainty. "And, I mean, he's injured
      and all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey," Ron said, suddenly alert. "What do you reckon Hermione
      would see in here? Herself with a load of the world's dullest books
      probably ... still, we should probably show her when she gets back.
      And what about Fred and George?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at Ron, his eyes narrowing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you think we should show a bunch of people?" Harry asked
      neutrally.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dunno," Ron shrugged. "Just wondering what they'd see is all.
      What about Neville? Bet it'd be himself with no bandages holding a
      Remembrall that's completely dim, eh? Or an 'O' in
      Transfiguration."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">No way</em>, Harry thought. <em class="calibre7">Could Milo have been right
      about the Mirror?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think," Harry said slowly, "that we should go talk to
      Dumbledore — or McGonagall."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, really?" Ron asked, as if Harry had just suggested they
      jump into a pit of venomous snakes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," said Harry. "I reckon the Mirror, it's, well, it's like
      Milo said, it's making you want to go and get other people to show
      it to." The last several words spilled out all at once.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">What?</em>" Ron sputtered. "Need I remind you that he
      <em class="calibre7">also</em> nicked the contents of everyone's trunks because he
      thought they were, and I quote, <em class="calibre7">treasure chests</em>? He's off
      his rocker."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But when <em class="calibre7">I</em> saw the mirror the next thing I did was to
      go get you two, and now <em class="calibre7">you</em> want to go get other people!
      It's just like he said!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was just wondering what they'd see is all," Ron said
      defensively. "And anyway, it's not like it's a crime, is it? It's a
      fun mirror, I mean. But it's not like I was seriously considering
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That so? Or is the Mirror <em class="calibre7">making</em> you say that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If I was being possessed," Ron said firmly. "I'd know about
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">I</em> didn't know when it made me show it to you!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron rolled his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, say you're right and it's this big dirty evil magic
      Mirror that's controlling me with its big dirty evil magic Mirror
      powers," Ron said patiently. "<em class="calibre7">If</em> that were true — and it
      isn't, but if it <em class="calibre7">were</em> — then we wouldn't be having this
      dumb conversation because you'd be controlled by its big dirty evil
      magic Mirror powers also."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned for a moment, then a thought struck him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," he said excitedly, "because he used <em class="calibre7">Protection From
      Evil</em> on me, remember? The Mirror can't influence me — but we
      have to find a teacher before it wears off! Can you remember how
      long it lasts? I can't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is mad," Ron said exasperatedly. "We're just getting jumpy
      'cause of Hannah and convinced everyone's possessed whenever they
      do <em class="calibre7">anything</em>. This time tomorrow someone will suggest we go
      get breakfast and everyone will be all 'He's possessed! Let's go
      run to Dumbledore!' or 'He said he was going to the loo! He must be
      possessed!'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's what you <em class="calibre7">would</em> say if the Mirror were
      controlling you," Harry insisted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's <em class="calibre7">also</em> what I'd say if I thought you were becoming
      an increasingly annoyingly paranoid git," Ron said, losing his
      patience. "Just saying."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's just go find him and go to McGonagall, okay? I mean,
      what's the worst that could happen?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That we all get eaten by spiders in the hallway,
      <em class="calibre7">obviously</em>," Ron said. "But <em class="calibre7">fine</em>, let's go — if
      it's the only thing that'll shut you up about this. Now, where do
      you reckon he is?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where who is?" asked a new voice. Harry and Ron turned,
      shocked, to find Milo leaning calmly against the doorframe to the
      classroom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You," Harry said while Ron said "What are you doing
      <em class="calibre7">here</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you lot fighting about?" he asked, ignoring Ron's
      question entirely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sir Paranoid here reckons we've both been bewitched," Ron said,
      "and wants to take us to McGonagall."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo snorted dismissively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lead on, then," he said. "Not that it will accomplish much;
      that's practically impossible to detect."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One second," Harry said. "Just going to grab the Cloak."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo raised an eyebrow briefly as Harry shoved his Invisibility
      Cloak into his schoolbag, but said nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right, let's go," Harry said, shouldering his bag and heading
      to the door. "And both of you stay in front of me," he added, "just
      in case."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As they walked to McGonagall's office, Harry kept a firm grip on
      his wand — he wasn't sure just how much power (if any) the Mirror
      had over them, but decided not to take any chances.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er, mate," Ron said anxiously as they rounded one of the last
      corners to their destination, "not really sure how to tell you
      this, but your magic belt thingy seems to be acting up." Ron
      gestured at Milo's belt, which, now that he was looking closely,
      Harry noticed <em class="calibre7">did</em>, indeed, seem to be 'acting up.' One of
      the ten small pouches was wiggling around, as if something inside
      was trying to get out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It does that sometimes," Milo said with a shrug. "It's nothing
      that need worry you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," said Ron. "It's just I never noticed it before."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Isn't that where you keep your rat?" Harry asked shrewdly. He'd
      seen the furry little animal poking it's head out of the belt
      occasionally to look around. In fact, he didn't think he'd ever
      seen the buckle on that particular pouch done up before...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope," Milo said blithely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, okay," Harry said as if it were nothing. <em class="calibre7">Something
      weird's definitely going on</em>, he thought. <em class="calibre7">Best get to
      McGonagall as quickly as possible.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Still can't believe I'm <em class="calibre7">voluntarily</em> walking to
      McGonagall's office," Ron muttered. "<em class="calibre7">Again</em>. What would
      Fred and George say?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry expected Milo to make a quip about just how 'voluntary'
      (or rather, involuntary) Ron's trip to the Deputy Headmistress's
      office really was, but Milo remained silent, staring straight ahead
      with his shoulders set.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It felt like it took ages, but in reality, it was only a four
      minute walk or so from the abandoned classroom to their
      destination. Harry rapped quickly on the door three times, not
      taking his eyes off of Milo.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come in," Harry heard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Harry said, gesturing with his wand (although, in
      truth, he didn't know any spells off-hand that he would use on them
      anyways). "You two go in first, and leave the talking to me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're mad, mate," Ron muttered, and pushed the door open.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Misters Potter, Weasley, and Amastacia-Liadon," McGonagall
      said, rising from her chair. "What seems to be the mat— why are you
      holding your wand? And <em class="calibre7">you</em>, shouldn't you be in the
      hospital wing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think these two have been bewitched —"Harry started.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, come now," McGonagall said in a pacifying tone. "Why would
      —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"— by a magic Mirror. And so have I."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mirror?" McGonagall asked sharply, suddenly alert. "Explain
      everything on the way. Let's go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where are we going?" Ron asked as McGonagall stepped around her
      desk to the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To see the Headmaster, of course. This nonsense about
      bewitchment aside, I need to talk to him about just
      <em class="calibre7">leaving</em> a certain powerful magical artifact where just
      <em class="calibre7">anyone</em> can bump into it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Despite the fact that she had dismissed Harry's concerns about
      mental control off-hand, Harry noticed that McGonagall, who usually
      liked to stay at the front of any particular group, stayed a
      half-step behind Harry, Ron and Milo on the way up to Dumbledore's
      hidden office — a fact which made it somewhat awkward for him to
      recount the events surrounding the mirror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall guided them down Hogwarts' ever-shifting halls,
      through false walls, up some stairs, down some stairs, up some more
      stairs, took what Harry swore were three left turns at one point
      and still ended up somewhere different, until they eventually
      stopped in front of an ominous-looking gargoyle statue. While Harry
      hadn't ever been to this particular statue, he was fairly sure
      McGonagall had taken a deliberately circuitous route.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw McGonagall's lips move, but a sudden ringing in his
      ears prevented him from hearing whatever it was she said. Just as
      abruptly as it started, the ringing stopped, and the gargoyle
      seemed to <em class="calibre7">rotate</em> upwards into a spiral staircase.
      Something about the way it moved seemed subtly <em class="calibre7">wrong</em> to
      Harry, but he'd seen enough magic to know not to analyze things too
      closely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Up you go," McGonagall said, and they trotted up the stone
      staircase to a heavy wooden door. McGonagall knocked politely on
      the door and waited.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shouldn't we just go in?" Harry asked, impatient. He didn't
      know how much longer <em class="calibre7">Protection From Evil</em> would last, or
      if it had already run out. "This is urgent."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Neither the Minister for Magic, Nicolas Flamel, nor even
      He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named would dare enter the Headmaster's office
      without permission. So we wait."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry waited several uncomfortable seconds, tapping his foot
      impatiently against the ancient stone floor. Eventually, the door
      simply swung open to let them in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore sat behind a heavy oak desk, wearing a particularly
      eye-watering multi-hued robe and his trademark half-moon
      spectacles.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why, Minerva, what an unexpected surprise!" he said, looking
      genuinely pleased. "And I see you've brought guests! Is it tea time
      already?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, it's not, it's —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My colleague Professor Sinistra assures me that, due to the
      rotation of the earth beneath our feet hurtling through space
      around the great, smiling face in the sky that we call the sun, it
      is <em class="calibre7">always</em> tea time. Somewhere, at least."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er, well, be that as it may, I have a matter of some importance
      to discuss with you," McGonagall said, desperately trying to regain
      the initiative. "It's about the Mirror, and ... something else as
      well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see," Dumbledore said gravely, all appearances of a foolish
      old man suddenly gone. Harry had never seen the Headmaster look so
      serious before. "Go on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps it would be best if Mister Potter explained," the
      Deputy Headmistress said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well. What's happened, Harry?" Dumbledore asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Harry nervously told his story, he noticed that Milo appeared
      to be sweating nervously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, in short, you think you're all being influenced by the
      Mirror of Erised?" Dumbledore asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is that what it's called?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is, indeed," Dumbledore said. "And, it appears, I shall have
      to have it moved from its temporary home. If it will put your mind
      at rest, the Mirror, while extremely powerful, does <em class="calibre7">not</em>
      have the ability to directly control the actions of those who gaze
      upon it — not to say that having their heart's desires revealed to
      them isn't a form of influence in itself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Harry said, greatly relieved.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Still," Dumbledore said, "you can't be too careful, I suppose.
      If you would be so good as to wait here a moment?" Without waiting
      for a reply, the Headmaster stood up from his desk to walk over to
      one of his shelves of ticking silver devices on the wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah," he said after rummaging about for a moment or two, "here
      we are. I've always been meaning to try this one out." Blowing what
      seemed to be generations of accumulated dust off of a
      complicated-looking spindly silver thing that Harry could only, in
      all honesty, accurately describe as a 'gizmo,' Dumbledore returned
      to his desk and sat down heavily. He placed the gizmo on the
      polished wooden surface where it made an ominous <em class="calibre7">thud</em> that
      seemed much louder than an object of its apparent mass would make.
      It had spiky protrusions. It had bits that whirled around for no
      apparent reason. It had twists and turns and knobs and dials. It
      had what looked uncomfortably like a dentist's drill only more,
      well, <em class="calibre7">eldritch</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But, Headmaster —" McGonagall began, looking astonished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not now, Minerva," Dumbledore said, brushing aside whatever her
      protest was. "This," he said to Harry, Ron, and Milo with a
      dramatic flourish, "is the, De ... bewitcher of, er, Destiny."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry, the —" McGonagall began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, the Debewitcher of Destiny. It's for, near as I can
      figure, revealing the presence of any form of magic that allows
      mental control, up to and including a certain Unforgivable
      curse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But detecting the Imperius Curse is all but impossible," Milo
      protested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed, without the Debewitcher of Doom, it <em class="calibre7">is</em>
      impossible," Dumbledore agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wasn't it called the Debewitcher of Destiny?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's very versatile," Dumledore shrugged. "Now, who shall I use
      it on first?" As he spoke, he adjusted several knobs and dials on
      the device, which made its drill extension whir in an ominous
      fashion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not going <em class="calibre7">near</em> that thing," Ron said stubbornly.
      "What would it do if we were, you know, bewitched? Not that we are,
      of course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," Dumbledore said, scratching his beard as he thought. "To
      be honest, I'm not completely certain. To the best of my knowledge,
      this dial here controls the severity of the Debewitcher's effect,"
      he said, gesturing at a particularly large, unmarked dial. "It goes
      anywhere from simply revealing the identity of the guilty party to
      having the earth itself rise up and swallow the culprit whole."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron gave a low whistle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The only problem is, the dial is unmarked. Now, of course, the
      normal convention is for dials to turn them to the left for their
      lowest setting , but, as I'm sure you can tell, the designer of
      this particular device was quite clearly bonkers. So, just to be
      safe, I'm turning it all the way to the right." As he did so, the
      whirring of the drill-end increased to a frightening pace, and
      parts of the machine were pumping up and down now at a rate that
      was shaking the floor. "Ah," Dumbledore said. "See? Perfectly
      safe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry swallowed nervously. Ron's face was white, and Milo licked
      his suddenly-dry lips.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I-I'll go first," Harry said. He'd rather do almost anything
      other than go <em class="calibre7">near</em> that deathtrap of a machine, but he
      <em class="calibre7">had</em> to know if the Mirror was controlling him. Also, it
      set a good precedent for Ron and <em class="calibre7">particularly</em> Milo. Once
      he'd done it and (hopefully) survived, they couldn't very well back
      out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then, if you would just place your palm here," Dumbledore said,
      pointing at a flat disc on one of the Debewitcher's spindly arms.
      Harry complied, taking care not to go anywhere near the more
      dangerous-looking appendages. There was a tense second or two as
      Harry waited for the results. The machine didn't, as far as Harry
      could tell, give any sort of feedback, but eventually Dumbledore
      broke the silence. "Well," he said, "it seems that you are,
      fortunately, no less — or more, for that matter — yourself than you
      usually are." Harry sighed with relief, collapsing into a nearby
      chair. "Now, Mister Weasley," Dumbledore said, turning to Ron. "If
      you would ...?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron gulped audibly, but put his now-heavily-sweating palm on the
      disc. To his relief, nothing happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"See?" he said to Harry, pulling his hand away from the machine.
      "I'm fine, just like I said."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And Mister Amastacia-Liadon," Dumbledore said, turning to Milo.
      "It's your turn."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I'm not possessed," he said stubbornly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure you're not," Dumbledore replied. "But, nevertheless,
      your two friends were brave enough to try it. Surely you — as, by
      your own admission, a hero — would be willing to do the same?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is pointless," he muttered. "I'm sure we all have
      <em class="calibre7">much</em> more important things to be doing — especially you,
      headmaster, as Supreme Mugwump on <em class="calibre7">top</em> of being Chief
      Warlock of the Wizengamot — than entertaining a boy's delusions. I
      mean, you yourself said the Mirror can't —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You got his titles right," Harry said suddenly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry, what?" Milo asked coolly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You get <em class="calibre7">everything's</em> name wrong," Harry said, backing
      away slowly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You once called him the Supreme Muggle instead of Mugwump, and
      called the Chudley Cannons <em class="calibre7">Cuddly</em>. I've never heard you
      get <em class="calibre7">two</em> polysyllabic names right in the same sentence
      before."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, maybe I thought it was funny then, but now things are
      impor—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You trapped Mordy in your Belt."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He was being unruly," Milo said defensively. "He bit me. See?"
      Milo peeled off one of his weird blue gloves to show a small bite
      mark between his thumb and index finger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe," Harry said skeptically. "He bit you because you're
      bewitched after all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm <em class="calibre7">not</em> —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then put your hand in the machine and prove it," Harry
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Fine</em>," Milo snapped, and stepped towards Dumbledore's
      desk. He reached slowly towards the machine with four sets of eyes
      boring into him slowly. Just as he was about to place his hand on
      the disc, he spun around. "<em class="calibre7">Summon Hipp</em>—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Dumbledore said quietly. There was no threat, no malice,
      and no particular volume to his words. He wasn't even holding his
      wand. Nevertheless, Milo blinked in amazement as his spell fizzled
      out in front of him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">How</em> did you —" he began, then noticed the large number
      of wands pointed at him. "Ah," he said. "I see."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Enervate</em>," Milo heard a voice say. In a panic, he
      rolled to the side and tried to stumble to his feet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't you <em class="calibre7">dare</em>," he said, feeling dizzy. The whole
      Material Plane seemed to be spinning in a somewhat concerning
      manner, and everything more than a few feet away was an indistinct
      blur. He didn't envy his chances of succeeding the requisite
      Concentration check to cast a spell given his current status.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was just —" the voice said again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Enervation</em>, eh?" Milo asked, trying to hide just how
      dazed he was. "You can keep your 1d4 negative levels, if you
      please, and tell me what the <em class="calibre7">Hells</em> is going on. Or... or
      else," he finished lamely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think we've got him back," someone else said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blimey, you reckon?" a third voice said sarcastically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If 'onety-four' is a number," a female voice said sternly,
      "then I shall eat my hat. I believe the word you were searching for
      was <em class="calibre7">fourteen</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Everyone, stop trying to be witty," Milo said, his vision
      growing somewhat clearer, "and give me a straight answer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You were controlled by the Imperius curse for an unknown
      duration by an unknown party," a grandfatherly voice that Milo
      recognized instantly as Dumbledore's said. "But were discovered by
      your good friend Harry Potter who, in a notably rare act of
      sensibility for a Gryffindor, immediately did the sensible thing
      and told the good Deputy Headmistress. Thirty points for
      Gryffindor, Harry, by the way. In, what if I dare say was a
      characteristic fit of quick thinking, I then managed to convince
      you — and, more importantly, whomever was controlling you — that I
      could reveal the identity of your controller with this
      fifteen-hundred-year-old magical juicer. You were presumably
      ordered to attack us, and Minerva, regrettably, was forced to
      subdue you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," said Milo, as the memory came back to him. The room was
      starting to stabilize, but Milo decided he'd be perfectly happy
      staying on blessedly solid the floor for a while nonetheless. "Then
      why did you try to cast <em class="calibre7">Enervation</em> on me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Enervate</em>, Milo, not <em class="calibre7">Enervation</em>," Dumbledore
      corrected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Demons and Tanar'ri," Milo shrugged. "Same thing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"While I have lived for quite some time and accumulated no small
      amount of knowledge of magic, I do not know of this
      <em class="calibre7">Enervation</em> spell of which you speak — fittingly, since I
      presume it is from your world. <em class="calibre7">Enervate</em>, however, is a
      harmless, yet rather unfortunately named spell to wake up those
      rendered asleep or unconscious by magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then why did they call it a word that means to suck energy
      <em class="calibre7">out</em> of something?" Milo asked curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Everyone makes mistakes," Dumbledore said with the slightest of
      shrugs. "I'm led to believe that some people at the ministry are
      working on a functionally identical spell with a more appropriate
      name. But I digress. I don't suppose there's any chance that you
      can identify the culprit?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry," Milo said. His vision had cleared to the point where he
      could clearly make out Dumbledore, Harry, Ron, and Professor
      McGongall's faces. "I was in the hallway near the Mirror when I
      thought I thought I noticed something, so I cast a spell that
      detects minds. It told me there were twelve sentient minds nearby,
      although I couldn't see any of them. Before I could find out more,
      I heard someone whisper '<em class="calibre7">Imperio'</em>, and then, well, you
      know the rest. Oh, speaking of," he said, unbuttoning the pouch
      that Mordy was trapped in. "Sorry, little guy," he said to his
      friend. "It's okay, now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The minds that the spell detected," Dumbledore pressed. "Are
      you quite sure they were <em class="calibre7">sentient</em>? As in, human-level
      intelligence?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er," Milo said, trying to remember the spell description.
      "Anything living that's as smart or smarter than a newt."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Could it have simply been the wall portraits?" Dumbledore
      asked. "I daresay, the one that guards Ravenclaw tower is a good
      deal smarter than a newt."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Milo said. "Those are probably Constructs — er, magically
      animated objects — and therefore immune to the spell. So whatever
      they were, they were invisible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In fact, that is most unlikely," Dumbledore said. "The ability
      to become <em class="calibre7">truly</em> invisible, at least in <em class="calibre7">our</em> world,
      is extremely rare. It is more likely that these twelve persons or
      creatures unknown were hidden with, say, a remarkably good
      Disillusionment Charm." <em class="calibre7">Oh</em>, Milo thought. <em class="calibre7">So</em>
      that's <em class="calibre7">why</em> See Invisibility <em class="calibre7">only worked on the Cloak.
      Go figure.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One last question," Milo asked. "Actually, make that
      <em class="calibre7">two</em> questions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well," Dumbledore said. "I will answer to within the
      confines of our earlier agreement."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The first: how did you interrupt my spell? I'd assumed our
      different types of magic were basically incompatible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, it was quite simple, really," Dumbledore admitted. "I
      simply used magic of a different sort. I reasoned that, since you
      once told me that you had worked and studied for your magic —
      rather than, say, being born into it — that it required a certain
      degree of mental fortitude and concentration to use, much like our
      magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you just..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Over the years, I've acquired something of a reputation for
      myself — most of it undeserved, of course — and I've found that a
      certain type of wizard, especially dark wizards, seem to believe me
      capable of almost anything. So, I simply commanded you to stop, and
      you, believing I actually had the power to do so, complied."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What would you have done if that hadn't worked?" Milo
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah," Dumbledore said with a slight twinkle in his eye. "In that
      case, I would have done nothing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing?" Milo asked, shocked. "Then the Hippogriff would have
      torn you to pieces."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I daresay not," Dumbledore said. "Minerva would have Stunned
      you well before you finished casting your spell. Now, as to your
      second question...?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Milo said. "What the <em class="calibre7">Hells</em> was that
      Mirror?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, the Mirror of Erised," Dumbledore said. "It shows the
      heart's deepest, and sometimes, unfortunately, <em class="calibre7">darkest</em>
      desire. Nothing more, and nothing less. I strongly urge you to put
      it out of your minds, for men have wasted away obsessing over it.
      Needless to say, it shall be moved to a more safe location as soon
      as possible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good idea," Milo said, remembering the disturbing images the
      Mirror had shown him. "Now, if someone will help me to the hospital
      wing, I'm going to stay there until I've made an amulet of
      <em class="calibre7">Protection From Evil</em> for everyone and their cousin."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
