<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 22: The Chessmaster, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s19" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 22: The Chessmaster</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Author's Notes: Thank everyone for the increasingly positive
      flood of reviews! Hope you enjoy reading this next chapter as much
      as I enjoyed writing it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Also, I'm going to experiment with chapterly-updated character
      sheets now that I can copy-paste them. Here's this one (replace the
      asterisks with periods):
      myth-weavers*com/sheetview*php?sheetid=444154</p>
      <p class="calibre6">EDIT: Wow, there were about a million embarrassingly obvious
      typos, grammatical errors, and repeated sentences in the first
      version. Sorry, guys! I think I caught most of them. Yikes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The remainder of the week was, for Milo, blissfully uneventful.
      Classes resumed, and with them the hustle and bustle of several
      hundred Hogwarts students returning from their vacation. Pleading
      illness (and who was qualified to disagree with him?), Milo, true
      to his word, sequestered himself in the hospital wing with Neville
      (Hannah, after a few days of rest and dozens of different healing
      Charms and potions, was deemed fit to return to school) frantically
      crafting Amulets of Protection From Evil and researching
      <em class="calibre7">Kelgore's Fire Bolt</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was here that Milo ran into a small problem of mathematics:
      it took two days, hundreds of Galleons of owl-ordered supplies
      (Milo found he could affray these costs somewhat by supplies nicked
      from Potions), and eighty Experience Points to make each amulet.
      Milo really didn't know much about the demographics of this plane
      (all he'd seen was a bit of Hogsmeade, Platform Nine and
      Three-Quarters, and, of course, Hogwarts) but there were probably
      several <em class="calibre7">thousand</em> wizards and witches out there. Even
      ruling out protecting the entire population and focussing on those
      who posed an imminent threat to Milo — anyone nearby who possessed
      a wand, had a drop of magical blood, could see lightning and hear
      thunder — the number of Amulets required was insanely
      unrealistic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is just so <em class="calibre7">backwards</em>," Milo muttered after, upon
      reaching the end of the week, completing only his third Amulet of
      Protection From Evil. The problem was that an Imperius'd wizard or
      witch was more of a threat to those <em class="calibre7">around</em> them than to
      themselves, so Milo, in order to protect <em class="calibre7">himself</em>, had to
      equip anyone and everyone <em class="calibre7">around him</em> with expensive
      amulets. The problem, however, was that Magic Item crafting
      benefited from <em class="calibre7">no</em> economy of scale whatsoever: if it took
      two thousand gold pieces and two days to make one Amulet of
      Protection From Evil, it would take two hundred thousand gold
      pieces and two hundred days to make a hundred of them. While Harry
      was rich, Milo doubted he was quite <em class="calibre7">that</em> rich. At some
      point, Milo was going to have to start paying him back for the
      (rather enormous) loan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's backwards?" a familiar voice said. Milo turned to the
      door to see Hermione standing there, a tray of steaming hot soup in
      her hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey!" Milo said. "I was wondering when you'd drop by."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry," Hermione said apologetically. "I was going to come
      earlier, but, well, it's the first week back and I didn't want to
      get behind — I mean, I only had time over the break to reread <em class="calibre7">A
      History of Magic</em>, <em class="calibre7">Magical Drafts and Potions</em>, <em class="calibre7">One
      Thousand Magical Herbs and Fungi</em>, and <em class="calibre7">Magical Theory</em>!
      I'm dangerously behind in <em class="calibre7">The Standard Book of Spells</em> and
      <em class="calibre7">A Beginner's Guide to Transfiguration</em>!" Hermione pulled
      herself together with visible effort. "But, my responsibility as a
      friend outweighs even academic concerns," she said officiously.
      "Well, at least, in an emergency. And except in exam period."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, thanks," Milo said. "Just set the soup down on the
      bedside table."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So," Hermione said after doing just that, "just how badly were
      you injured, anyway? I remember after the Troll you were on your
      feet in no time, and, well, you were in pretty bad shape that time,
      so... I mean, are you all right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, totally fine," Milo shrugged. "But if Pomfrey asks, I
      need another day of complete bed rest to, and make sure you get
      this right, 'regenerate my recuperative and restorative healing
      abilities and realign my <em class="calibre7">ki</em> power pool or die.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You could <em class="calibre7">die?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope," Milo said. "I made all that stuff up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're... you're <em class="calibre7">skiving!</em>" Hermione accused,
      aghast.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, <em class="calibre7">duh</em>. But it's for a good cause — which reminds
      me..." Milo fished out the three Amulets of Protection From Evil
      from his magic belt. "<em class="calibre7">Arcane Mark</em>, <em class="calibre7">Arcane Mark</em>,
      <em class="calibre7">Arcane Mark</em>, <em class="calibre7">Arcane Mark</em>, <em class="calibre7">Arcane Mark</em>,
      <em class="calibre7">Arcane Mark</em>," he cast repeatedly, placing a pair of unique
      symbols on each amulet for later identification. One symbol on each
      amulet was a faintly glowing rune which was, using Milo's magic
      anyways, virtually impossible for anyone else to duplicate. The
      local magic was largely one giant unknown, however, so Milo also
      put an invisible version of the mark on each amulet as a backup —
      one that <em class="calibre7">only</em> Milo could see, and even then, only when he
      cast <em class="calibre7">See Invisibility</em> first. If someone out there
      (<em class="calibre7">*cough*</em> Snape <em class="calibre7">*cough*</em>) tried to switch the
      amulets for forgeries, <em class="calibre7">and</em> they somehow managed to
      duplicate the decoy mark, they wouldn't even <em class="calibre7">know</em> about
      the invisible one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What was that all about?" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For later identification," Milo said. "I mark all my stuff that
      way, comes in handy more than you'd think. Here, put this on," Milo
      handed her one of the amulets.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er, it's, um, pretty?" Hermione tried, desperately, to sound
      delighted, but the fact was that the amulets were little more than
      small silver discs on a thin, but sturdy, steel chain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is it?" Milo asked. "Aesthetics were never my strong suit, to
      be honest. Appearances aside, that right there's what we in the
      business call a Magic Item."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's magic about it?" Hermione asked, examining it
      curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Makes you immune to the Imperius Curse," Milo said
      nonchalantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry," Hermione said. "Could you say that again? See, here I
      thought you said that this little necklace is supposed to protect
      you against one of the darkest, most powerful Curses in
      existence."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Milo said. "And any other mind-affecting magic, also.
      Just make sure you keep it on at <em class="calibre7">all</em> times, and give this
      other one to Harry. I'll have Ron's done sometime tomorrow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stared at Milo, evidently trying to decide if he was
      joking or not.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're serious, aren't you?" she asked. "I mean, I'd heard from
      Ron that you had a spell that did something like that
      <em class="calibre7">temporarily</em>, but this... This is <em class="calibre7">big</em>, do you
      understand? Really big."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I guess? I mean, it's pretty trivial magic where I'm
      from."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Blocking the Imperius Curse is trivial?</em>" Hermione
      exclaimed. "From what I've read, during the last war, the other
      side managed to infiltrate the Ministry at <em class="calibre7">every</em> level,
      and we're <em class="calibre7">still</em> not sure who was bewitched and who was a
      volunteer. It was utter <em class="calibre7">chaos</em>, and You-Know-Who nearly
      toppled the entire government that way. It takes
      <em class="calibre7">exceptional</em> willpower — as in, one person in
      <em class="calibre7">hundreds</em> — or <em class="calibre7">years</em> of training to resist. How
      could preventing something like that <em class="calibre7">possibly</em> be
      trivial?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I figure it's something like Transfiguration. Using Arcane
      magic — my magic, that is — turning a matchstick into a pin
      requires an <em class="calibre7">extremely</em> powerful spell. And healing injuries
      like Pomfrey can do with a wave and a word is nigh impossible. On
      the other hand, I can see right through Harry's super-rare and
      expensive Invisibility Cloak without much difficulty because, well,
      for us, mere Invisibility is an everyday sort of thing. Ironically,
      it's the inferior Disillusionment Charm that I can't beat. Which
      actually reminds me of something, Hermione, that I was going to ask
      you," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you know of any spells that can change someone's heart's
      desire, if only temporarily?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What does <em class="calibre7">that</em> have to do with the Disillusionment
      Charm?" Hermione asked, perplexed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Long story. But can it be done?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's see..." Hermione scratched her chin, deep in thought. "I
      presume you're talking about the Mirror? It really depends on what,
      exactly, 'heart's desire' means. With a decent Confundus Charm — or
      maybe even after being Obliviated, which leaves the target in a
      highly suggestive state — you can definitely force someone to want
      something. Whether that counts as your new 'heart's desire,'
      however, I think is a matter of interpretation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah," Milo was crushed by disappointment. He'd hoped to trick
      the Mirror of Erised into showing him whatever he needed to see,
      but he was pretty sure that he'd destroyed his chances of getting a
      favourable outcome in any 'matter of interpretation' when he tried
      to use Spontaneous Divination to mimic a Cleric spell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"However," Hermione said, looking thoughtful. "It's possible —
      <em class="calibre7">unlikely</em>, mind, but <em class="calibre7">possible</em> — that a
      sufficiently powerful Love potion might have the desired
      effect."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A Love potion." Milo said flatly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It basically comes down to how, well, <em class="calibre7">fluffy</em> one
      interprets the meaning of 'heart's desire' to be. Will someone who
      is madly in love, but drugged by a potion into loving someone else
      see their 'one true love,' or the person who is pressing on their
      minds at that very moment? The answer to that, I really couldn't
      tell you. Seems more up Professor Dumbledore's alley, to be honest.
      It's all academic, in any case. Harry said he was going to move the
      Mirror, I doubt we'll ever see it again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course we will!" Milo said. "It's on the List. If it wasn't
      going to pop up again later for something important, why would we
      have seen it after Christmas? It would have been a complete waste
      of everyone's time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have a <em class="calibre7">very</em> unusual view of the world," Hermione
      said, her tone making it perfectly clear how she felt about
      that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's never led me astray yet," Milo said defensively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now <em class="calibre7">that</em> is a matter of some debate," she said. "Oh,
      also, McGonagall told us that Dumbledore officially pardoned the
      Gryffindor house for assaulting the Slytherins in Potions.
      Apparently we've fallen precipitously behind even Hufflepuff, not
      that there's anything wrong with them, in our courses because of
      all the detentions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, <em class="calibre7">that's</em> a relief," Milo said. "I <em class="calibre7">badly</em>
      need that time for spell research. There just aren't enough hours
      in the day."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tell me about it," Hermione said sympathetically. "I don't see
      <em class="calibre7">how</em> I'm going to fit all the courses I want onto my
      schedule in third year," she said. "Which reminds me — I
      <em class="calibre7">really</em> need to get back to studying."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After she left, Milo returned to work on Ron's Amulet. He'd have
      to spend most of the rest of today and tomorrow on it, but
      Sunday...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...Sunday was saved for Quirrell's Duelling Club.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"S-s-some of you are p-p-probably wondering w-why the
      D-D-Defence P-Professor would start a D-Duelling Club," Quirrell
      stammered to the assembled students. Roughly one-third of the
      entire student body had signed up for his Club, from first-years to
      seventh-years, and stood assembled in the Great Hall. "B-because
      whatever you c-could learn in this c-club, surely, I c-could teach
      you in y-your regular c-c-course?" Milo blinked. He hadn't been
      wondering that at all; he'd mostly been wondering how much longer
      he had to wait before magically curbstomping some local 'wizards.'
      "Well, the d-d-difference between D-Defence Against the D-Dark Arts
      and D-D-Duelling lies in y-your opponent. C-can anyone t-tell me
      what a Red C-Cap, a Werewolf, a Dementor, a D-Doxie, a B-Boggart,
      and even a V-V-V-Vampire have in c-common?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Students shuffled their feet, glancing at one another, trying to
      determine any similarity between these extremely disparate
      creatures.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's the answer to this one?" Ron whispered hopefully to
      Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know!" she whispered back, her eyes looking somewhat
      wild. "It's not in any of our textbooks, and most of those
      creatures aren't covered until third year or higher!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Somewhere near the front, an NPC raised his hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, C-C-Cedric?" Quirrell asked the boy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're not human," he said simply. "And they all have some
      sort of weakness to memorize, or a vulnerability to a particular
      Charm or Curse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"C-correct," Quirrell stammered, "and ten p-points for
      Hufflepuff." There was some astonished murmuring from the ranks — a
      <em class="calibre7">Hufflepuff</em> (not that there's anything wrong with them,
      great people, by the way) answered a question about
      <em class="calibre7">Defence</em> and got it <em class="calibre7">right?</em> Who <em class="calibre7">was</em> this
      boy? "In short," Quirrell continued, "as l-l-long as you're
      prepared and r-r-reasonably alert, most m-magical creatures pose
      l-little threat to a q-qualified wizard or w-witch. Now, who c-can
      tell me how fighting another w-wizard or w-w-witch is
      different?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Again, it was Cedric who raised his hand first.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because, in theory, a wizard fighting another wizard is a fair
      fight," the handsome Hufflepuff explained. "They both have access
      to the same spells, and since every spell — Unforgivables aside, of
      course — can be countered in some fashion, it comes down to the
      differences between the individual witches or wizards in
      question."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"C-correct again," Quirrell said. "A-and another t-ten points
      for Hufflepuff. N-now, to the c-c-crux of the m-matter, what is the
      f-factor that will d-determine which w-wizard will prevail?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This time, nearly every student in the hall raised their
      hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Mister M-Malfoy?" Quirrell asked Draco, who was standing
      near the front, surrounded by a gaggle of Slytherins, as
      always.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blood purity and raw magical power," Draco said simply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I-interesting," Quirrell said. "And what s-say you, Miss
      G-Granger?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Practicing the most advanced spells," Hermione answered, "so
      that they can be cast reliably and effectively even under stressful
      circumstances."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And y-you again, M-Mister D-Diggory?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Having friends and allies you can trust," Cedric said.
      "Something that Dark Wizards always lack, which is why they are
      <em class="calibre7">always</em> defeated."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A t-true H-Hufflepuff answer," Quirrell said. "I'm s-sure
      H-Helga h-herself w-would agree w-with you wholeheartedly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo realized that, while Quirrell <em class="calibre7">seemed</em> to be
      choosing people from the crowd completely at random, a suspiciously
      large number of them — that is to say, <em class="calibre7">all</em> of them —
      seemed to be PCs or major NPCs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Put Cedric on the List," Milo whispered to Harry. "We'll be
      seeing more of him, count on it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"M-Mister P-P-Potter," Quirrell said, "the only w-wizard here to
      s-survive an encounter w-with Y-Y-You-Know-Who. W-what w-would you
      say is the s-s-secret to your s-success?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry, almost alone among the Hogwarts students, <em class="calibre7">hadn't</em>
      raised his hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um," he said. "Well, I mean, I don't really know. So... I would
      have to say luck. A million factors that neither wizard really
      knows about come into play, and could result in, well, like you
      said. Me surviving against You-Know-Who."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A-and what about you, M-Mister M-Milo of the lengthy last
      name?" Quirrell asked. "What determines the victor?" <em class="calibre7">Hmm,</em>
      Milo thought. <em class="calibre7">Good question. Most people would say the highest
      level wizard wins, but that's not always true, now is it? A
      high-level Wizard optimized for basketweaving and lute-playing
      would be crushed by a properly-optimized lower-level
      Wizard.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The wizard who memorizes and casts the most appropriate spells
      wins," Milo said. "Unless, like Harry said, the other one rolls a
      well-timed twenty. Er, that is, gets in an exceptionally lucky
      shot. But you can't count on that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed you c-cannot," Quirrell said, "which b-brings me to the
      m-most important f-factor in a d-d-duel," he paused dramatically,
      letting everyone wonder what he was going to was going to say.
      "<em class="calibre7">Strategy</em>. As any spell — w-with the obvious exceptions,
      of c-c-course — c-can be c-countered, the d-duel goes t-to
      whichever wizard that <em class="calibre7">d-doesn't</em> m-make the f-first
      mistake. C-Curses, H-Hexes, Charms, and their c-counters can all be
      t-taught, learned, and p-p-practised in a straightforward m-manner
      — which we w-will g-get to, in g-g-good t-time — but g-good
      strategy, and thinking q-quickly on your f-f-feet cannot be
      w-without m-much difficulty. S-so th-that is where we w-will
      start." Quirrell gave his wand a complicated little wave and the
      Great Hall tables rolled into the centre of the room from their
      resting places at the edges. "And there is no better way to develop
      strategy than with chess." Sitting on the tables were hundreds of
      neatly-placed wizard chess sets with a pair of small red tags
      sitting next to each. "Everyone g-grab a p-partner and a tag,"
      Quirrell said. "The w-winner of the m-match t-t-takes the loser's
      t-tag and challenges s-someone with a l-like number of t-tags. The
      l-losers will k-keep playing a-against other l-losers until they
      r-realize their m-mistake. W-we w-will continue until w-we find the
      b-best strategist, and therefore d-duellist, a-among you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Hogwarts students stared up at Quirrell in a stunned
      silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Chess," Malfoy said flatly. "We're going to play
      <em class="calibre7">chess</em>. Why are we listening to this stuttering idiot,
      anyways? He's afraid of his own <em class="calibre7">shadow</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"H-have you ever entered a n-nest of v-vampires, M-Mister
      M-M-Malfoy," Quirrell asked, "and s-survived w-with only a
      st-st-stutter to show f-for it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"N-no," Quirrell interrupted. "You h-have not. Y-you will either
      p-pick a p-partner, Mister M-Malfoy, or y-you will l-leave and
      w-w-wonder for the n-next t-twenty years why you are the w-w-worst
      d-duellist of your g-generation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why twenty years?" Draco asked despite himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"An optimistic estimate of your l-lifespan should you ch-choose
      to f-forgo these l-lessons."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy paled and sat down across from Goyle, clipping a red tag
      to his lapel.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is ridiculous," Milo muttered to Hermione, his chess
      partner. "Skill Ranks in Profession (Chessmaster) have <em class="calibre7">no</em>
      bearing on one's ability to stomp squishy wizards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"See, the thing is," Hermione said, "I know what all of those
      words mean in and of themselves, but the way you string them
      together... it's like someone handed a book of Mad Libs to a
      Confunded Troll."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm a Confunded Troll, am I?" Milo asked with a slight edge in
      his voice. "Well <em class="calibre7">you're</em> blind to the story unfolding
      before your very eyes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blind?" Hermione asked, a dangerous glint entering her eyes.
      "No, <em class="calibre7">you're</em> just convinced this is some storybook
      fairytale land where everything happens for a <em class="calibre7">reason</em>. And
      not a good reason, mind, but a <em class="calibre7">stupid</em>, trite, clichéd
      reason."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not a story," Milo said, placing his pieces on the board, "an
      <em class="calibre7">adventure</em>. Completely different school of magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Real life does <em class="calibre7">not</em> have adventures!" Hermione said,
      her voice growing louder. "It has rules, responsible adults,
      homework, and grades!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think we've more or less exhausted the possibilities of this
      conversation," Milo said coolly. "Roll for Initiative,
      <em class="calibre7">bookworm</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione, playing white, naturally won Initiative. She sent one
      of her Commoners forwards, breaking their naturally defensive
      spear-wall and leaving her Aristocrats vulnerable to a cavalry
      charge from Milo's flanking Knights.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My left and right Clerics cast <em class="calibre7">Wall of Stone</em> and
      <em class="calibre7">Flame Strike</em>, respectively," Milo declared, "while the
      Commoners garrison these towers and ready an action to provide
      covering fire should any white soldiers enter range of their
      crossbows. The Knights run up to <em class="calibre7">this</em> position," he placed
      the two horses near Hermione's Clerics to Attack of Opportunity
      them should they try to cast anything, "and my Aristocrats take a
      full defence action."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er," Hermione said. "You can only move one piece on your
      turn."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, we're tracking individual Initiatives? Okay. In that case,
      <em class="calibre7">Flame Strike</em>. Let's see some Reflex Saves, now, shall
      we?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why me?" Hermione asked the air dramatically. "Why? What did I
      ever do to deserve this? You know what? <em class="calibre7">Here</em>. Just take my
      tag, I forfeit. It's just not worth it. I'll go play with Neville
      in the corner." Hermione stalked off as Milo clipped Hermione's tag
      to his robes under his own.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One down," he smirked. "Four hundred to go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blimey," said one of Milo's Clerics. "I don't think you quite
      understand how this works, do you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Holy Crap!</em> You can <em class="calibre7">talk?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It didn't take long for Ron to win a small hoard of victory tags
      (crushing Milo mercilessly in the process), leaving him with only
      one opponent in his level: Cedric Diggory, the Uber-Hufflepuff.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The hundreds of defeated students gathered around, causing such
      a disturbance that Milo conjured up a massive illusory chess set in
      the air that mimicked Ron's and Cedric's moves. The game progressed
      largely in silence, save for the occasional "check" from either
      player, as the two masters stared at the board in deep
      concentration.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The game had already lasted longer than the rest of the
      tournament put together, with the two of them sometimes taking up
      to fifteen minutes to make a single move. It was Cedric's turn,
      and, after what seemed like years of careful consideration, he
      moved his remaining bishop forwards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Check," he said, finally.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron moved like lightening, slamming his rook into place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Check <em class="calibre7">mate</em>, mate," Ron exclaimed exuberantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, shame," Cedric said, but it was with a smile that he passed
      over his original tag. "Good game though, eh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Best I've ever played," Ron said sincerely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And th-th-there you have it," Quirrell stammered to the crowd.
      "The most b-b-brilliant master st-strategist, and, I'm s-sure,
      a-accomplished d-d-duellist, of the st-student b-b-body is none
      other than M-M-Mister R-R-Ronald Weasley."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Weasley?</em>" Malfoy scoffed. "<em class="calibre7">Brilliant?</em>
      Hufflepuff will win the House Cup before <em class="calibre7">Weasley</em> learns to
      tie his <em class="calibre7">shoes</em> properly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"C-c-class dismissed," Quirrell said with a wave. "W-W-Weasley,
      can I t-t-talk to you f-for a m-moment?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh," Ron said, looking somewhat panicked. "Sure, I guess."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"N-n-next time," Quirrell said to everyone, "w-we're learning
      E-Expelliarmus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo followed Harry and Hermione back to the Common Room, where
      he sat in the corner working on Hannah's Amulet. <em class="calibre7">I need to find
      a faster way of making these</em>, he thought impatiently, etching
      a minute arcane rune onto a Sickle destined for melting into the
      final medallion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," Harry said, putting aside his History of Magic textbook,
      "that was sort of unexpected, don't you think?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, Quirrell's club?" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Harry said. "That man's off his rocker, I swear.
      Still... if it helps me learn to fight, well, I suppose it'll be
      worth it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I agree," Milo said. "Whatever happened to him over the
      summer's definitely unhinged him. And this '<em class="calibre7">chess</em>' is
      hardly an adequate simulation of realistic battlefield conditions —
      I mean, why in the Hells can the heavy cavalry only move in right
      angles? It makes no <em class="calibre7">sense!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're just sore because the rules can't be gamed," Hermione
      smirked. "Which, incidentally, is why it's so popular. You have to
      use actual strategy and tactics."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Strategy <em class="calibre7">is</em> gaming the rules," Milo responded. "It's
      analyzing the situation and seizing any and every possible
      advantage, even if it's completely ridiculous on the surface. Why,
      I once met this Half-Ogre who managed to defeat an entire Legion of
      the Tharllian Empire's best troops with a Spiked Chain because
      —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry," Hermione said, looking sick. "Did you say
      Half-<em class="calibre7">Ogre</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before Milo could answer, Ron entered the Common Room through
      the portal with a chess set in his hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oi!" Harry said. "What did Quirrell want?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To play chess," Ron answered happily. "Weird, eh? He said he
      wants to test his skills against a worthy opponent, so every other
      day I make a move against him and every <em class="calibre7">other</em> other day he
      makes one against me. He gave me this chess set," Ron held up his
      new set, "which is linked to the one in his office. If I make a
      move here, he sees it there, and vice-versa. Cool, eh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why so slow?" Hermione asked. "If he wanted to test your
      duelling aptitude, shouldn't you be playing speed chess?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or using actual <em class="calibre7">magic?</em>" Milo added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He said that this way, I'll have as much time as I need to
      think out my move and make sure I make the right one," Ron
      shrugged. "He says it's more interesting that way. He implied that
      he hadn't had a decent sparring partner in years."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Seems a bit late in the plot for him to suddenly develop such a
      major character trait as 'chess grand-master,'" Milo mused. "I
      wonder what he's up to?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione glanced at Ron and rotated her finger slowly around her
      ear in the universally-accepted sign for 'crazy.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe he just really likes chess?" Harry suggested. "I mean,
      it's not like we would have had a chance to see it in action
      before, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose... but, even so. Harry: add 'chess' to the List, and
      Ron: <em class="calibre7">win</em> that game against Quirrell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why?" Ron asked. "Well, I mean, I was planning to anyway, but
      why is it important?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know exactly," Milo said. "I just have a gut feeling
      that something important is riding on that match," he said, "and,
      as a rule of thumb, winning <em class="calibre7">always</em> leads to the more
      desirable outcome — and with it, the best swag."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, well, I'll do my best," Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I'd best get to Quidditch practice," Harry said, rising
      from his armchair. "We're playing Hufflepuff on Saturday, and
      Wood's gone into mad slavemaster mode again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This was nice," Hermione said, relaxing in her chair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What was?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A whole weekend went by and nobody was hospitalized," she
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Except Neville, of course," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right, except Neville. Sad business, that. I had <em class="calibre7">no
      idea</em> a bishop could do that to a person. Still, be nice if
      every weekend was like this, but, I suppose that'd just be wishful
      thinking."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Despite Hermione's complacent attitude, Milo still felt
      something was wrong. This whole Duelling Club business smelled
      somewhat off to him, and he <em class="calibre7">still</em> didn't know who the Dark
      Wizard who Imperius'd him and Hannah was, or what he wanted. Was it
      Snape, trying to kill Milo to remove an obstacle between him and
      the Stone? Or Lucius, stepping out from the shadows and getting his
      hands dirty personally? And <em class="calibre7">why</em> had Milo been Imperius'd
      in the hallways — whoever had done it didn't seem to get much out
      of it. The whole attack seemed, in hindsight, remarkably
      poorly-planned... it was almost like they didn't <em class="calibre7">want</em> to
      succeed — or, alternatively, their goals were so obscure that Milo
      simply couldn't figure them out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Unless...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo frowned. Once he'd been possessed, it didn't seem like his
      controller knew quite what to do with him. His orders had been
      vague and, seemingly, without purpose. Had it been one of the
      servants of the Dark Lord, surely, he'd be ordered to kill Harry or
      steal the Stone? If it was Lucius — or Snape for that matter —
      you'd think he'd be ordered to do something incriminating and be
      expelled (or, failing that, simply walk out of the school grounds
      to be captured). And what of those other eleven minds he'd
      detected?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On the whole, if that were some sort of strike against Milo or
      his allies, it had been a rather clumsy attempt. The more Milo
      thought about it, the more he was certain that he was looking at
      things backwards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Suddenly, Milo felt as if a Wight had an icy hand around his
      heart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione," Milo said slowly. "What were the methods you
      suggested for changing someone's heart's desire?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you still on that?" she asked, racking her memory. "Love
      potions, the Confundus Charm, or a Memory Charm. Why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, <em class="calibre7">exactly</em>, is a Memory Charm?" Milo asked, but he
      was sure he knew the answer already. Back on Hallowe'en, when Milo
      touched the Remembrall...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's an advanced spell that wipes someone's memory of a
      duration of time," she explained. "A skilled user can replace them
      with false memories altogether. I wouldn't worry about it, though,"
      she said reassuringly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why not?" Milo asked, feeling somewhat mollified.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We don't have to learn them until Seventh Year," she said
      happily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo cursed sulfurously and nearly ran for the exit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait!" Hermione called. "Where are you going?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To see Neville," Milo said.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
