<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 5: The Forbidden Forest, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 5: The Forbidden Forest</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">They met Hagrid and the quietly quivering Quirinus Quirrell in
      the Great Hall. Hagrid, evidently some sort of half-giant Ranger,
      was carrying a heavy crossbow (Milo was skeptical, light crossbows
      were <em class="calibre7">much</em> more damage-efficient) and carrying Fang's
      leash. Milo had carefully prepared his spells that morning, and
      avoided casting any throughout the day—meaning the Gryffindors
      started to be late for class, again, as Peeves could harass them
      with impunity, and Milo was starting to appear rather useless in
      their lessons. Still, he wasn't about to venture into something
      called the <em class="calibre7">Forbidden Forest</em> without a full complement of
      spells.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Mage Armour,</em>" he cast as soon as they approached the
      professor and the Keeper of the Keys. A thin, invisible field of
      force surrounded him like a second skin. It was far from complete
      protection, but it would help a little.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hagrid!" Harry said happily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A-all right" Quirrell said, "our j-job is simple: all we're
      t-to do is enter the f-f-forest and f-find whatever it is
      a-attacking the u-unicorns," he stammered nervously. "A-and then
      r-return to H-Hogwarts so the H-Headmaster and I can d-d-decide
      what to do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sounds like a plan," Milo said, although he privately wondered
      why all the powerful wizards living in Hogwarts didn't just use
      some Divinations to determine what was in the forest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeh all right, Harry?" Hagrid asked the Harry, who looked a
      little nervous, but determined. Milo was a little impressed that
      he'd volunteered for this, his friend was only three days into his
      wizard training. Milo hadn't, in fact, seen him perform any actual
      magic, yet. <em class="calibre7">Now that's guts</em>, he thought. <em class="calibre7">But smart. If
      he lives, anything we encounter will give him so much XP that he's
      bound to level up at</em> least <em class="calibre7">once.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's be off, then," Hagrid said, and led them through the
      grounds. <em class="calibre7">Hogwarts sure looks eerie at night,</em> Milo thought.
      <em class="calibre7">A bit like Thamior's old place</em>. Milo felt a brief pang of
      homesickness; Thamior was evil to the core, sure, but after the
      number of times Milo and his party had defeated him, he was
      practically family. "Now, I want ter be clear: anythin'
      happens—anythin' at all—and yer ter send up red sparks an' run, yeh
      hear?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Milo nodded mutely. Milo could do close enough with a
      <em class="calibre7">Dancing Lights</em> spell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A-and keep y-your eyes p-p-p-peeled," said Quirrell. "A-and
      stick c-close."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A soft breeze caused the chill night air to bite clean through
      their school uniforms, and Milo pulled out a warm scarf and some
      wool gloves (fingerless, so as not to interfere with his
      spellcasting gestures) from his Belt of Hidden Pouches.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right. I'll take Harry an' Fang, Quirrell can take Milo,"
      Hagrid said as they reached the outskirts of the forest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, we're splitting up?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We've had bad experiences with that before," Milo added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Best way to find what we're lookin' fer," Hagrid said. "Too big
      of a group, an' we'll spook it. Remember: run in ter trouble, send
      sparks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, Harry," Milo said. "See you on the other side,
      right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"'Course. Don't worry, I'm sure we'll be fine," Harry said. Milo
      was astonished: was Harry trying to reassure <em class="calibre7">him</em>?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, Harry, I think that one day—when you've gone up a few
      levels, and get a few magic items—you'll be quite the hero. Good
      luck."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two groups split up and entered the forest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, what are we looking for, exactly, Professor?" Milo asked
      Quirrell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We are not yet certain," Quirrell said. "Something that's been
      attacking unicorns—almost certainly some kind of animal. Keep an
      eye out for any unicorn's blood; it has a distinctive silvery
      colour."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Again, Milo had the nagging feeling that he'd failed a skill
      check. Quirrell had his wand at the ready. It felt like they'd been
      walking for hours, but Milo doubted it was more than half of
      one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bet this is old hat for you, right?" Milo asked, feeling
      slightly nervous. "You probably charge into the Forbidden Forest
      every other week, fighting monsters and things?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, that's Hagrid's job. I've only been this deep twice
      before," Quirrell said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh. Good."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait, <em class="calibre7">quiet</em>—I think I heard something," Quirrell said.
      "Best hide behind that tree, I'll investigate. Just stay down."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before Milo could argue, Quirrel strode off the path with his
      wand held out like a weapon—which, Milo, supposed, it was. Milo
      shrugged and ducked behind a tree, which was covered in soft moss.
      He heard rustling in the darkness, and debated whether to cast
      <em class="calibre7">Dancing Lights</em> to see what was going on. He eventually
      decided against, reasoning that the light <em class="calibre7">might</em> reveal
      some sort of monster sneaking up on him but would
      <em class="calibre7">certainly</em> attract everything in the entire forest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then he heard another rustle, closer this time. <em class="calibre7">Okay,
      something is</em> definitely <em class="calibre7">sneaking up on me</em>. He moved
      to stand up quietly, but found, to his surprise, that he couldn't.
      He appeared to be stuck to the tree.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What the—oh, <em class="calibre7">gross</em>." What he'd thought was moss turned
      out to be webs. He struggled against it vainly, but it was
      useless—he was stuck.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Protection from Evil, Mirror Image, Invisibility</em>,"
      Milo cast in quick succession. He vanished abruptly, but five
      identical illusory copies of himself remained. Classic shell
      con—<em class="calibre7">none</em> of the visible Milos were the real one. He hoped
      he wasn't jumping at shadows, because he'd just burned through most
      of his daily allotment of spells.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was mildly satisfied when one of his illusory doubles was
      abruptly torn to pieces by a shadowy creature. The satisfaction
      vanished when he realized he was, illusions aside, stuck to a tree
      being attacked by a monster he couldn't see.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Dancing Lights</em>," he cast, sending four glowing red
      spheres into the sky above him. On the way up, they briefly
      illuminated, in red, horrible compound eyes and sharp pincers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Great,</em> he thought. <em class="calibre7">Giant spiders.</em> His
      invisibility spell would end as soon as he attacked one of
      them—that is, cast any spell that included them in the area. That
      ruled out <em class="calibre7">Glitterdust</em> and <em class="calibre7">Grease</em>, Milo's two
      favourite spells, but <em class="calibre7">not</em> creative use of
      <em class="calibre7">Levitate</em>. He could move himself or up to 400lbs of objects
      vertically, but not horizontally. Generally the spell was used by
      Wizards to escape, but Milo doubted it would pull him off of the
      webs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Levitate</em>," he, and all of his doppelgangers, said. A
      hefty fallen log nearby Milo rose up slowly, ponderously, into the
      air a foot or two. Another mirror Milo fell to the spider's attack,
      and Milo started to sweat. Seeing yourself being eaten by a giant
      spider in dim red light while alone and trapped in a forest is,
      probably, one of the worst experiences a kid can go through (after
      visiting the dentist, of course). Milo then carefully reached into
      his Belt of Hidden Pouches with his right hand (his left was stuck
      in the webs) and withdrew an old adventurer's staple—fifty feet of
      silk rope and a grappling hook. The rope was invisible, but would
      cease to be as soon as it came to be more than ten feet from
      Milo—and the log was about twelve feet away. Hopefully the
      spider(s?) wouldn't notice two feet of taut rope appearing from
      nowhere. He awkwardly tossed the rope at the log—and missed. Milo
      saw another mirror Milo wink out of existence, presumably hit by
      the unseen attacker.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo looked at the fallen grappling hook, lying uselessly in the
      mud, and panicked slightly. <em class="calibre7">Shouldn't help be coming?</em> He
      thought. <em class="calibre7">The glowing lights are up above me and
      everything</em>. <em class="calibre7">Wish I prepared</em> Mage Hand <em class="calibre7">this
      morning.</em> His plan had been to lift the fallen tree up into the
      air, and use the grappling hook to pull it over to above the
      monstrous spider, then drop it. He doubted he'd have time to pull
      the hook back and throw it again. <em class="calibre7">Well, nothing for
      it.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No sense in us both dying, Mordy," he whispered to his familiar
      as he pulled him from his belt. "Run back to Hogwarts, see if
      Hermione or Hannah want you to be their familiar. Good luck, old
      friend."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Fear. Despair. Reluctance</em>. He felt through their bond.
      Mordenkainen reluctantly crawled out of Milo's grasp, and turned
      around briefly. <em class="calibre7">Love,</em> he felt, before the magical creature
      skittered off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">GLITTERDUST,</em>" Milo bellowed. The spider, now covered
      in glowing dust, was <em class="calibre7">huge</em>. The hairy creature's legs
      spanned at <em class="calibre7">least</em> fifteen feet across. The thing was
      blinded by the spell, but that would only last for twenty-four
      seconds. Also, his invisibility was gone, and he was still stuck.
      He decided to try burning the webs off of him with
      <em class="calibre7">Prestidigitation</em>—he might well get set on fire, but at
      least he'd be free.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Prestidigitation</em>," he said, and a small jet of fire
      sprung out of his hand at the tree… but nothing happened. Milo was
      confused, he was <em class="calibre7">sure</em> that would work. (Milo's only
      experience with webs came from the <em class="calibre7">Web</em> spell, which was
      used frequently by his arch-nemesis Thamior, and only bear passing
      resemblance to actual spider silk. Notably, the magical webs burn
      rapidly when exposed to fire—real spider silk, as Milo would know
      if he'd put any skill points into Knowledge (Nature), is
      fireproof).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Only eighteen seconds left. The spider flailed about awkwardly,
      catching one of Milo's duplicates with one of its eight hairy legs.
      The duplicate flickered and vanished. All Milo had left was
      <em class="calibre7">Silent Image</em>, <em class="calibre7">Feather Fall</em>, <em class="calibre7">Grease</em>, and
      some cantrips.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Grease</em>," he cast at the ground under the spider. The
      blind spider's eight legs flailed about, trying to get traction on
      the slippery ground, it's pincers creating an agitated clicking
      sound. It managed to keep its balance, however—Milo had forgotten
      that creatures with extra legs got a bonus to stability. He felt,
      after casting, that it might have been more effective to cast it on
      <em class="calibre7">himself</em> in case the spider tried to pick him up. Ah, well,
      twelve seconds to live. Milo frowned, thoughtfully. One effect of
      <em class="calibre7">Grease</em> was that anyone standing on the slippery surface
      had to make a Balance check to stay standing, and one effect of
      Balance was that anyone who took damage had to redo the check or
      fall. The amount of damage didn't make a difference.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo grinned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Acid Splash</em>," he cast, and a pitifully small orb of
      acid hit the spider in what its face would be if it had one.
      <em class="calibre7">Acid Splash</em> was one of the most useless spells in
      existence—it hurt even less than just punching someone would, or
      even throwing a small rock—but Milo, as a Conjurer, got an extra
      Conjuration spell per level, and <em class="calibre7">Acid Splash</em> was the
      <em class="calibre7">only</em> 0th-level Conjuration spell in the multiverse. Milo
      had no choice but to prepare it every morning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The spider fell to the ground, and Milo had six seconds before
      Glitterdust wore off and the spider could see. Milo gestured at the
      <em class="calibre7">Levitated</em> log, still floating a little above the ground,
      and it flew up into the canopy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, <em class="calibre7">ugly</em>," Milo said, reaching into his belt. "Fear
      me, for I hold the mighty eldritch power of an eleven-foot
      pole!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He gave the fallen spider a light push, and it slid (slightly
      downhill) along the <em class="calibre7">Greased</em> dirt, until it came to a stop
      in the slight depression where the log once was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The spider's vision returned, and as <em class="calibre7">Glitterdust</em> ended,
      it became stealthy again. The spider's dark brown carapace was all
      but invisible in the darkness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo dismissed <em class="calibre7">Levitate</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He couldn't see what happened, but he <em class="calibre7">definitely</em> felt
      the 600 XP he got for defeating a Challenge Rating 2 Monstrous
      Spider solo. Milo sighed. He was somewhat disappointed by that, he
      thought the spider was worth way more than that. <em class="calibre7">Well, I guess
      the spiders here are pushovers compared to the ones back home</em>,
      he thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Quirrell, Hagrid and Harry found him, he was whistling
      softly to himself, stuck to a tree.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Milo!" Harry shouted, panicked. "Are you alright?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, totally fine," he said, though in truth he felt a little
      woozy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeh managed ter kill an Acromantula?" Hagrid asked, shocked.
      "Aragog's not gonna like this. We'd best be leavin'."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What took you guys so long?" Milo asked dizzily as Hagrid
      pulled him out of the webs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We ran in ter Quirrell, who was in a right state, said we had
      ter help yeh—but we were delayed by centaurs. Them stargazers took
      an unnatural dislike to our Defence Professor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell appeared to have lost his short-lived courage, and was
      as pale and quivery as ever.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Centaurs… in a forest? I figured horse-y types would prefer
      plains… not planes, mind, 'cause of all the… weird… monsters…"
      Milo's eyelids felt heavy and his head drooped slightly. He felt
      sort of numb all over.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hagrid? I think something's wrong with Milo," Harry said to the
      giant.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What? Can't see anythin' in this ruddy darkness. Professor,
      could you…?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "O-of c-c-c-course, Hagrid," Quirrell stammered.
      "<em class="calibre7">L-lumos</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell held the tip of his glowing wand over Milo, so Hagrid
      could investigate closer. It was hard to tell, because of the poor
      lighting and Milo's black uniform, but there was a patch that
      seemed slightly darker than the rest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, no," Hagrid gasped. "He's bin bit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo frowned. He definitely didn't remember that happening. In
      fact, he was all but certain the acromantula never got even
      <em class="calibre7">close</em> to close enough to him to bite him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nah, hairy brute never touched me," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"H-he's delusional from the v-venom," Quirrell said. "I f-f-feel
      terrible, he w-was my r-r-responsibility."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're stuttering," Milo said. Something was nagging at him,
      but it felt as though his head were packed with wool.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I-I a-always st-st-stutter," Quirrell stuttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We need ter get 'im back to the castle," Hagrid said.
      "Acromantula venom can be lethal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Poison?" Milo asked, and reached for his belt. He kept
      antitoxin in one of the pockets… which one? It seemed like it
      should be important, but he was having difficulty focussing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I-I'll take him," Quirrell said. "You c-c-can keep
      s-searching."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right. Harry, you'd best be goin' with 'em," the giant said to
      the Boy-Who-Lived.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But, then you'd be out there alone," Harry protested. "Are you
      sure you'd be okay?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Nah, I got Fang. Don't worry yerself about me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Wingardium Leviosa</em>," Quirrell said, casting the
      Hovering Charm on Milo, who was starting to lose consciousness.
      Quirrell led Harry through the forest back towards the castle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shouldn't we hurry, Professor?" Harry asked anxiously. "Milo
      looks really sick."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell shook his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"N-not in a f-forest," he said, "and c-certainly n-not in a
      f-forest in the d-d-dark. W-we could tr-trip in j-just about
      a-anything, and th-then we would take e-even longer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry supposed Quirrell had a point, but their leisurely pace
      seemed torturously slow to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry, frightened by the forest, gradually drifted closer to
      Quirrell as they walked. The Defence Professor was a bit spineless,
      but he seemed pretty competent with magic—and he <em class="calibre7">had</em> faced
      down vampires at some point. However, as Harry drew nearer, his
      scar began to ache abruptly. He doubled over, clutching at his
      forehead. When his hand drew away, there was blood on it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A-are you al-alright, boy?" Quirrell asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh," Harry said as the pain gradually decreased. "Yeah… yeah,
      I'm fine. It's nothing. It just… my scar hurts sometimes, usually
      around Snape."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Th-the scar—I understand y-you got i-it from the
      D-d-d-dark—from H-H-He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Professor. That's what I'm told, at least."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell frowned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Th-then I'd s-s-suggest you b-be wary around the Potions
      M-M-Master," he said. "H-He used to be a D-D-D-Death Eater, I-I'm
      told. A-and this d-d-detention <em class="calibre7">was</em> h-his idea."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was surprised. He didn't like Snape, but he hadn't
      realized that the greasy professor had been one of Voldemort's
      followers. Maybe he was going to try and finish the job that the
      dark wizard had started? Perhaps it was Harry, and not Milo, who
      had been meant to be attacked by the giant spider. Good thing
      Quirrell had been there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As they continued to walk, Milo's condition worsened. He started
      babbling incoherently about his pockets and Quirrell's stutter,
      before passing out entirely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mordy scampered as fast as he could across the cold stone floor
      (which, considering he was a rat (more or less), was not terribly
      fast) towards the Gryffindor Common Rooms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everything was going swell until he encountered The Fell Beast.
      The Fell Beast gave a cry of rage that would haunt Mordy's dreams
      for weeks and charged. Mordy tried to dodge, but the cat was too
      fast—its claws left a bloody gash down the rodent's back. It would
      have been enough to kill a lesser rat, but Mordy, as a familiar,
      had more hit points—barely. He had half as many as his master, who
      unfortunately decided to dump Constitution at character
      creation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mordy climbed a suit of armour (rusty, the Gryffindors hadn't
      got this far yet) to escape the dreadful claws. He tensed, and
      jumped over to the next suit, barely catching hold of the helmet's
      visor. The Fell Beast, meanwhile, sat on the ground, debating what
      to do. He saw her tense up, ready to pounce, and Mordenkainen
      started to wish, heartily, that his master had taken the Improved
      Familiar feat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the Fell Beast jumped, Mordy let go of the visor and landed
      on the ground painfully. The cat's collision with the armour
      toppled it to the ground, and it spread in pieces over the hallway.
      Mordy evaded them easily (Improved Evasion could be handy) and
      sprinted as the cat regained her senses. <em class="calibre7">Terror, Panic,
      Despair,</em> he felt through the empathic bond with his
      master.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He rounded the last corner before the common room, and finally
      reached the portrait. The Fell Beast was hot on his heels.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Password?" asked the Fat Lady.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Squeak," said Mordenkainen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Correct," said the painting, and swung open. He barely made it
      through the portal as the painting swung shut. He could clearly
      hear the irritated sound of the Fell Beast hissing in frustration
      on the other side. There was a promise of pain and death in that
      hiss. <em class="calibre7">Victory, Satisfaction, Triumph</em>, he felt through the
      bond with his master.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the common room, he saw Scabbers eating some crumbs off the
      floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Squeak!" he said to the ugly rat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Squeak?" the appropriately-named Scabbers asked, surprised.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Squeak, squeak-squeak squeak!" Mordy said urgently. <em class="calibre7">Fear,
      Pain, Dizziness</em>, he felt. <em class="calibre7">Oh, no,</em> Mordy thought.
      <em class="calibre7">Has he been poisoned? Is he sick?</em> Mordy concentrated and
      tried to send strength through the bond. Every species of familiar
      had some sort of special power—and rats could convey a measure of
      resistance against things like sickness in their master, as long as
      they were within a mile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Squeak," Scabbers said, and gave the rat-equivalent of a shrug.
      Mordy gave Scabbers a solid kick to the stomach, and ran into the
      girls' dorms. He had to find the one with the nice teeth. She was
      smart, she would understand, she would help. The problem was that
      the humans all looked alike to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Squeak?" he said hopefully to one, who woke up, looked at
      Mordy, and screamed. <em class="calibre7">Wrong one,</em> he thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's a <em class="calibre7">rat</em> in my room!" she cried. "Lavender! Wake
      up!" another girl stirred irritably.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Lavender asked sleepily. "Ack!" she shrieked. The other
      humans all stood up out of bed while Mordy looked at them each,
      carefully, trying to figure out which was the one with nice teeth.
      The fact that they all were screaming made it easier.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, it's that rat Milo carries around all the time," said one
      (Hannah, in case you were wondering, not that Mordy knew that).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's he doing in <em class="calibre7">here</em>?" Lavender asked. Mordy gave
      the rat equivalent of a sigh. <em class="calibre7">This wouldn't happen if I were a
      mouse</em>, he thought. <em class="calibre7">Everyone</em> loves <em class="calibre7">mice</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Squeak!" he said urgently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He looks kinda distressed," Lavender said. "Wait, is he
      bleeding?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He should be with Milo," said one. "And Milo's out in the
      Forbidden Forest…" she frowned. "We need to find McGonagall,
      immediately. Milo could be in trouble—and this poor rat looks half
      dead." As she spoke, he could see her teeth—good, rat-like teeth.
      <em class="calibre7">Yes, this is the one</em>, he thought as his hit points slipped
      into the negatives.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">This is taking way too long</em>, Harry thought. <em class="calibre7">Is
      Quirrell lost?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sh-should be just past the next few t-trees," Quirrell
      reassured him. "Th-then we'll b-be in open t-t-territory and can
      sp-sprint."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was skeptical. He was fairly certain they were going
      roughly perpendicular to the castle, but then again, he'd never
      been in a forest before—it was more than likely that his sense of
      direction was misleading him. Still, he felt that the return
      journey should be faster than the trip out—they were taking all
      kinds of twists and turns while searching for the mysterious
      unicorn-killer—but it had been at least that long since they'd left
      Hagrid.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry gripped his wand, for all the good that it would do. His
      scar still ached somewhat, so he wondered if Snape was around,
      creeping in the bushes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello?" he heard a familiar voice call out. "Hagrid? Harry?
      Quirrell? Milo?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Headmaster!" Harry shouted. "We're over here!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell, Harry noticed, looked briefly frustrated before
      regaining his composure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait there!" Dumbledore shouted. As the grandfatherly man
      approached, Harry could see a glowing red light coming closer. It
      looked like fire, but it felt oddly soothing. Quirrell shielded his
      eyes from the bright light, but Harry felt fine</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"H-Headmaster, th-the boy was b-bit by an acromantula," Quirrell
      said to Dumbledore, who had a red, glowing bird of some sort
      perched on his shoulder. "H-he's been p-poisoned."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore acted quickly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quirrell, take Mr. Potter back to the Gryffindor common room.
      Fawkes," Dumbledore said to the bird, "take me and Milo to the
      hospital wing." There was a burst of red flame, and Dumbledore and
      Harry's friend vanished with a small puff of smoke.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sh-showy, b-b-but effective," Quirrell noted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo awoke, staring at an all-too familiar ceiling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm in the hospital again, aren't I?" he asked weakly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry to say that you're correct, young man," Madam Pomfrey
      said. "And, don't take this the wrong way, but it would be nice to
      go five days without seeing you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo laughed weakly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You'll note," she continued, "that we left you with your
      magical belt this time. Your… pet… is on the bed next to you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mordenkainen was lying on the next bed over, wrapped in
      bandages.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What happened to him?" Milo asked, his voice full of
      concern.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He was attempting to get the Gryffindor common room, we
      believe, and was attacked by Ms. Norris. He almost died, but
      Hermione got him here in time, bless her. His appearance was how
      Dumbledore knew to go looking for you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo frowned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why did I need rescuing, again? It all seems so foggy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You were bitten by an acromantula, a highly intelligent and
      extremely dangerous magical spider-like monster. You're lucky to be
      alive. It's the sort of thing I'd think you'd remember," she said.
      The bite wound had, largely, healed mysteriously during the night,
      much like his injuries had when he'd first arrived. The venom's
      effects, however, lingered somewhat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Milo said. "I definitely <em class="calibre7">don't</em> remember that.
      There was a spider, and I dropped a tree on it, but it never
      touched me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're still very sick, and I'm sure it all happened very fast.
      I wouldn't worry about it," she said, while pondering his words.
      <em class="calibre7">He thinks he dropped a</em> tree <em class="calibre7">on it?</em> Pomfrey
      thought. <em class="calibre7">He</em> is <em class="calibre7">delirious</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How long was I out?" he asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A day and a half, roughly. We managed to stabilize you, but it
      took until this morning for Snape to brew the antidote," she said.
      "He worked all night, you know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo frowned. That story didn't add up at all. Something weird
      was going on.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
