<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 23: The Duelling Club, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s20" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 23: The Duelling Club</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Today's character sheet: myth-weavers com/sheetview
      php?sheetid=447028 (Replace the spaces with periods)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Extra Long) Author's Notes (feel free to skip them, there's
      nothing particularly important): This weekend, I decided that now
      might be a good time to go back and reread some of my earlier
      chapters and make sure I didn't have any plot threads I'd left
      hanging. While I was at it, I thought, I could make improvements to
      the start of the story using what I'd writing the rest of it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This proved to be a colossal mistake. A number of wiser and
      better writers than me tell me that it is <em class="calibre7">universal</em> among
      writers to be embarrassed by anything they've ever written, but I
      never really believed it until now. The first chapter of this story
      is <em class="calibre7">terrible</em>. It is <em class="calibre7">shamefully bad</em>. I can't
      imagine how <em class="calibre7">any</em> of you managed to stand it (but I'm glad
      you did).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I got three pages in and closed the lid of my laptop by reflex
      as a defence mechanism to get the <em class="calibre7">horror away</em>. That said,
      I managed to change a sentence in which I used Milo's name twice
      (pronouns FTW) and posted the edit, so that's something.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">/Horrified Rant.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On a completely different topic, I've had a large number of
      reviews and messages asking me similar questions, so I think I'll
      make an official sort of FAQ statement now:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">Q: Does D&amp;D (the tabletop game) exist in the world
      of Harry Potter and the Natural 20?<br class="calibre4"/>
      A:</strong> No, it does not, and neither do its descendent spin-off
      RPGs. In any case, the story is set in the early nineties, and 3e
      wasn't released until 2000.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">Q: Will [insert HP character here] gain D&amp;D class
      levels or powers? (Or, alternatively, will Milo gain HP wizard
      magic?)</strong><br class="calibre4"/>
      <strong class="calibre8">A:</strong> No. Milo and [insert HP character] are an
      entirely different kind of human that follow an entirely different
      set of laws of the universe. Milo is closer to a Muggle or Squib
      than a wizard, and HP-world characters do not gain experience
      points.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">Q: Why doesn't Milo invent a spell (or feat) that does
      X?<br class="calibre4"/>
      A:</strong> I'm avoiding having Milo invent new spells (or feats,
      PrCs, etc.) altogether (that is, spells not present in any of the
      D&amp;D core or splatbooks) because homebrew material involves a
      lot of DM discretion which to a certain extent negates the point
      (and fun) of min-maxing. Imagine Milo's world is run by a hardline
      Rules-As-Written DM who gets wrathful when anyone tries to push
      anything <em class="calibre7">too</em> far.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">Q: Have you ever heard of/will you update to Pathfinder
      or 4e?</strong><br class="calibre4"/>
      <strong class="calibre8">A:</strong> Pathfinder is a fantastic improvement of the
      3.5 rules that I highly recommend to anyone and everyone; I'm not a
      fan of 4th edition for a number of reasons, but lots of people like
      it so I suppose it can't be all bad. That said, I'm staying
      strictly within the 3.5 rules because a) they're what I'm most
      familiar with, b) I'd feel bad about poking fun at a smaller
      company like Paizo (WOTC is fair game, though), and c) I feel that
      updating the rules partway through would detract from the story,
      screw with any readers that aren't major D&amp;D fans, and
      necessitate a lot of jokes and fun-poking at the differences
      between 3.5 and 4 or 3.5 and Pathfinder, and generally detract from
      the jokes and fun-poking at the differences between Harry Potter
      and D&amp;D3.5.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">Q: Will you do the whole series?<br class="calibre4"/>
      A:</strong> That's the plan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">Q: What splatbook is Myra (City of Light! City
      of</strong> <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">Magic!</strong></em><strong class="calibre8">) and the Azel
      Empire from?<br class="calibre4"/>
      A:</strong> None of them. The names are pulled from campaigns I've
      DM'd over the years, but are otherwise completely original (or
      rather, completely unoriginal, seeing as how the Azel Empire is a
      deliberate cariciture of most campaign settings). The "City of
      Light! City of <em class="calibre7">Magic!</em>" line is a reference to The Elder
      Scrolls: Morrowind, in which the Mournhold city guards spout the
      line endlessly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">Q: Is Milo (at least, at the start of the fic) an
      example of how</strong> <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">you</strong></em> <strong class="calibre8">play
      D&amp;D?<br class="calibre4"/>
      A:</strong> Only when I hate the DM.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think it's about time we had a little chat," Milo said,
      closing the office door behind him. "About what <em class="calibre7">really</em>
      happened in the Forbidden Forest in September."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell slid his office chair backwards slightly, covering the
      motion of his hand as he covertly drew his wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"W-what about it?" he asked, his voice kept carefully
      neutral.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There were always a few facts about that night that never quite
      added up to me," Milo said, ignoring the Professor. "For example —
      how did I get poisoned? The Acromantula never had a chance. How did
      the Acromantula die? The log I dropped on it wasn't <em class="calibre7">nearly</em>
      enough to do the deed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It l-looked quite heavy t-to m-m-me," Quirrell stammered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It should have shrugged the log off and eaten me on the spot,"
      Milo told him. "And it's body had no signs of prior injury, so it
      isn't like the log was enough to push it over the edge into
      negative hit points. No, something else killed that Acromantula.
      Something that kills its target without leaving a trace."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell tightened the grip on his wand beneath the desk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I-I don't —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I think you do," Milo said. "There's only <em class="calibre7">one</em>
      spell that could do that, and, Hells, you used it against Fluffy.
      You're a hero for it, after all. The Killing Curse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"W-what —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But the Curse is hardly stealthy, it has a signature bright
      green flash. The spider was right in front of me and it was pitch
      dark — there's no <em class="calibre7">possible</em> way I could have missed
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Y-you m-must have," Quirrell said. "Or r-rather, the
      Acromantula d-died s-some other —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Milo cut him off. "Don't you see? <em class="calibre7">I saw the spider
      killed</em>. A wizard did it right before my very eyes. He just
      walked right up, killed the Acromantula, and left. He cut off one
      of the spider's fangs — Acromantula venom is potent even after
      death, after all — and stabbed me in the stomach with it. I saw
      <em class="calibre7">everything</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then w-why d-d-didn't you s-say so earlier?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo reached into his robes, and Quirrell, surprised, nearly
      killed him on the spot. It was only the knowledge that Milo had no
      need of a wand to use magic that stayed his hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of all things, it was a Remembrall that Milo withdrew from his
      pocket.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A Remembrall which shone like the sun.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was Memory Charmed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Th-that's hardly proof," Quirrell pointed out. "P-perhaps you
      s-simply f-f-forgot to b-brush your t-t-teeth l-last night?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I, like any self-respecting Arcanist, use
      <em class="calibre7">Prestidigitation</em>, which is quite beside the point. I can
      prove to you that it was no inconsequential memory that I've
      forgotten," Milo said calmly. "Describe the Remembrall for me,
      Professor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I d-d-don't understand," Quirrell said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's quite simple. Just... a quick description of this ball
      will suffice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell shrugged. <em class="calibre7">What's this boy's game?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a t-tennis b-ball s-s-sized c-clear g-g-glass ball f-full
      of smoke," Quirell said. "I-it t-turns red when the h-h-holder
      f-forgets something and c-clear when it is r-r-remembered."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's an awful lot of adjectives, Professor," Milo said with a
      slight grin. "At least four."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"S-so what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And it first turned up months ago in a seemingly
      inconsequential manner — something unimportant about Harry joining
      the Quidditch team — and again on Hallowe'en, when it broke.
      Fortunately, one of Neville's supporting characters sent him a
      replacement. That makes this the third time it's turned up,
      Professor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This m-matters how?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Rule of Three. This here, judging by the amount of attention
      it's gathered, is a <em class="calibre7">very</em> significant plot device. Why,
      it'd simply be a waste of time if it <em class="calibre7">didn't</em> turn out to be
      important."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">That's</em> your proof?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've seen men hanged for less in Myra — City of Light, City of
      <em class="calibre7">Magic!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Even a-assuming this is t-t-true," Quirrell said, watching the
      boy closely, "w-who would d-do such a thing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think we <em class="calibre7">both</em> know the answer to that question,
      Professor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell tensed, ready to strike.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was, of course," Milo said, leaning forwards slightly, "none
      other than Professor Snape."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"S-Snape?" Quirrell asked. "H-how d-do you know?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Honestly, who else would it be?" Milo asked. "You can't shake a
      staff in this castle without finding an evil plot Snape's behind.
      I'm starting to think he's only still a teacher because of how
      <em class="calibre7">dull</em> things would be without him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"W-why wouldn't he j-just l-let the A-Acromantula k-kill you?"
      Quirrell asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's the bit I can't figure out," Milo admitted. "But I'm
      sure he'll be good enough to explain it in his villain monologue at
      the end."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"W-why are you t-telling me this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, simple. Snape can pull memories from my head, so I figure I
      should disseminate important information to trustworthy NPCs — as a
      sort of backup. Also, and I hate to say this, I'm starting to think
      I'll need all the help I can get. This situation is becoming...
      complicated, for a number of reasons. Gods, what I wouldn't give
      for a straightforward sidequest or monster hunt. In any event, I
      don't suppose you know of any way to cure Memory Charms?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"S-sorry," Quirrell apologised. "I-I'm afraid they're
      g-generally q-quite permanent."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hells," Milo cursed. "And <em class="calibre7">Protection From Evil</em> won't
      do a thing against them, either, based on Hermione's description,
      which means I'll need to think of something <em class="calibre7">clever</em>. Well,
      I suppose it can't be used on me as long as I've got my..." Milo
      trailed off for a second. "That's it!" he exclaimed, and headed
      back for the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"W-wait!" Quirrell called, but Milo, frustratingly, seemed
      suddenly oblivious to his existence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was like an Attack of Opportunity," Milo explained to his
      party (and Hannah). "His plan wasn't to Imperius me to further his
      elaborate scheme; he Imperius'd me because I was
      <em class="calibre7">there</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why?" Harry asked. Milo was standing in front of them in the
      Gryffindor Common Room, a revised version of The Plot hovering in
      the air, shimmering slightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To prevent me from finding out what he was up to with his
      eleven Disillusioned friends," Milo answered. "He didn't know or
      <em class="calibre7">care</em> about the Mirror. He just wanted me gone before I
      figured out what he was up to. It worked, too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So why not simply Stun you?" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or even better, just finish you off for good?" Ron added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or, even better, Memory Charm you — like you said he did after
      the Acromantula."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't say for sure," Milo said, "but I think it's because he
      was hoping nobody would notice. A perfect crime, so to speak. Snape
      doesn't seem to be skilled enough at Memory Charms to replace the
      target's memories with false ones — at least, I hope he isn't, or
      we're all screwed — so I'd wake up wondering where the last several
      minutes went. Something which Mordy here would be all too happy to
      fill me in on. As for why he didn't kill me... well, he doesn't
      seem to want me dead anymore, for some reason — except when he
      does. He's very inconsistent, in fact."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean?" Hannah asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," Milo explained, "one day he wants me expelled and the
      next he's possessing you to kill me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry about that," Hannah said quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It wasn't your fault," Milo said. "Just keep your amulet on,
      and you'll be fine." Milo had decided on impulse to give Hannah the
      Amulet of Protection From Evil that he'd reserved for himself,
      meaning he'd have to wait another two days for his. He still wasn't
      quite sure why he'd done it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm starting to wonder if something more complicated isn't
      going on," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Even <em class="calibre7">more</em> complicated than <em class="calibre7">that?</em>" Ron
      groaned, pointing at The Plot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Snape's erratic attempts just aren't lining up anymore. If he
      <em class="calibre7">really</em> wanted me resting in Boccob's uncaring embrace, why
      did Hannah open up with Stunners?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought you said she used Unforgivables," Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She switched when I ducked for cover," Milo explained. "Unless
      there's some rule or class feature I'm unaware of, Hannah's
      strategy made no sense."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey," Hannah said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry, I mean, <em class="calibre7">Snape's</em> strategy made no sense."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," Hermione mused, "maybe he doesn't want you dead at
      all?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then <em class="calibre7">why</em> did Hannah use Killing Curses at
      <em class="calibre7">all?</em>" Milo asked. "It's completely nonsensical."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then one of your assumptions is wrong," Hermione said bluntly.
      "Personally, I don't think it's Snape at all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But we know it's him," Milo protested. "He was out meeting
      Lucius in the forest and everything. Use your eyes, Hermione! He's
      so <em class="calibre7">obviously</em> villainous."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And yet," Hermione said coolly, "Dumbledore — the brightest
      mind of his generation and the most powerful wizard alive — lets
      him teach here regardless. What do we <em class="calibre7">know</em> about
      Snape?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That he's a smarmy git?" Ron suggested helpfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And that he's allergic to shampoo?" Harry added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">No</em>," Hermione said firmly. "We <em class="calibre7">know</em> that he
      met Lucius in the forest and Lucius ordered him to <em class="calibre7">have you
      expelled</em>, Milo. <em class="calibre7">Expelled</em>. Not murdered."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, maybe he's upped the ante since then —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"See, I don't think he has. Assuming he <em class="calibre7">was</em> behind the
      attack on Harry in the Quidditch match, and the test to show you
      can't make potions, that's <em class="calibre7">two</em> completely non-lethal
      attempts to expel you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then why would he release a Troll on Hallowe'en, stab me with
      an Acromantula fang, possess Hannah to kill me, and have the Drow
      in the kitchen poison my treacle tart?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why indeed?" Hermione smiled. "What if he <em class="calibre7">didn't</em> do
      any of those things?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What," Milo scoffed, "are you suggesting the treacle tart
      poisoned itself on its own accord?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Hermione continued, "I'm suggesting there's another agent
      at play here. Could you adjust the display for a moment? Place
      Snape and Mister Malfoy off to the side with the various attempts
      to expel you, and Draco to a <em class="calibre7">different</em> side with his
      fumbled Quidditch plots."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If it makes you happy," Milo said, adjusting his illusion. "But
      that leaves a big hole <em class="calibre7">here</em>, though, with the various
      assassination attempts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed it does," agreed Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So... who fills the gap?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">That's</em> the question we should be asking."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You aren't seriously suggesting that there's three <em class="calibre7">entirely
      separate</em> camps of villains working against us?" Milo asked.
      "That'd just be a huge mess. They'd spend half their time tripping
      over themselves."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why shouldn't there be?" Hermione asked. "Sometimes, real life
      <em class="calibre7">is</em> just a huge mess."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Otiluke's Razor suggests otherwise," Milo countered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione paused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't you mean Occam's Razor?" she asked tentatively. "'The
      simplest solution is usually the best one?'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Psht! What nonsense is that?" Milo said dismissively. "No,
      it's, 'the most dramatically appropriate solution is usually the
      best one.' In this case, it's clearly that You-Know-Who is pulling
      all the strings behind the scenes." Milo rearranged The Plot to
      demonstrate, "Except that there's some unknown factor thrown in
      there as well — probably a betrayal by someone close to us, I'm
      thinking Neville — which will only be revealed by the villain's
      final rant. And, as the time-tested Tenser's Theorem states, 'any
      attempt to discover a shocking twist before the end of an adventure
      will be doomed to failure, so focus on the job in front of you.'
      Ergo: defeating 'Puffs in Quidditch."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I ... don't follow," Hermione admitted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Remember when Harry stomped the Slytherins?" Milo asked. "It
      was a big deal. <em class="calibre7">The Daily Prophet</em> had a field day about...
      well, about something to do with broomsticks, anyways."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That both the Nimbus and the prototype Firebolts seemed to
      suffer from a similar flaw and went haywire," Ron said. "And that
      the Boy-Who-Lived is quote, unquote 'in addition to being top
      student in his year, also the best Seeker Hogwarts has seen in many
      a year —'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I'm not the —" Harry protested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hold up, I haven't even got to the part where it talks about
      how supremely handsome you are," Ron snickered. "Malfoy wasn't
      mentioned at all, by the way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You see?" Milo said. "There's obviously some kind of subplot or
      sidequest involving Quidditch. I can only assume that we'll get
      bonus XP or Magic Items if we win the Cup. So: we'll win."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But that match against Slytherin was hardly fair," Harry said.
      "There were plots within bloody plots. I've only been in one real
      game, what if Hufflepuff wins?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," Milo said conspiratorially, "I think I can help you a
      bit, there..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mount your brooms, please," Milo heard Madam Hooch say from his
      seat up in the stands. The Hufflepuffs had arrived with banners
      bearing a variety of fairly unoriginal slogans (and occasional
      trash-talk, but Milo suspected that was from the Slytherins, who,
      strangely, had come out to the witch and wizard to root on the
      Hufflepuffs) to which Milo had responded with a <em class="calibre7">Silent
      Image</em> of a fifty-foot tall Crimson-and-Gold Gryffindor lion
      devouring a Hufflepuff badger. When he added <em class="calibre7">Ghost Sound</em>
      (which accurately mimicked, in both pitch and volume, the roar of
      an enraged Dire Tiger, amplified by the voices of the actual
      students of House Gryffindor — and more than a few Ravenclaws),
      McGonagall awarded him five points for amazing spellwork and then
      banned all form of banner, magical or otherwise, from the rest of
      the match.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Hooch gave a loud blast of her whistle, the signal to start
      the game, the players blasted off into the air — but Harry was
      much, <em class="calibre7">much</em> faster than the rest. This was due to a
      combination of two factors: Harry's vastly superior Nimbus
      broomstick, and the fact that he was currently under the effects of
      <em class="calibre7">Levitate</em>, making him effectively weightless.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Locate Object</em> — <em class="calibre7">Golden Snitch</em>," Milo muttered
      under his breath. "<em class="calibre7">Message</em>: Harry, it's thirty-three
      degrees to my right and eighteen degrees upwards." Milo had
      carefully chosen the seat closest to dead-centre in the auditorium
      that he could manage, which put him (unfortunately) almost directly
      next to Snape.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Milo continued to mutter instructions under his breath, he
      noticed something surprising. Quirrell, sitting nearby, had one
      eyebrow cocked quizzically. <em class="calibre7">Probably thinks I'm praying or
      something</em>, Milo thought. <em class="calibre7">He can't know what I'm up to,
      though, can he?</em> Idly, Milo wondered if there was a rule
      against him pointing the Snitch out to Harry. <em class="calibre7">In any case, what
      could they do</em>? Milo thought, <em class="calibre7">it's not like you can award a
      penalty against the audience.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Hufflepuffs, to be fair, did fairly well for themselves —
      they managed to seize possession of the Quaffle early on, and the
      three Chasers, passing the ball between themselves rapidly, were
      quickly boring down on Wood, defending the goals — not that it
      helped them much, in the end. Roughly forty seconds (forty-two to
      be precise, or exactly seven rounds) after the start of the match,
      Lee Jordan's magically amplified voice rang out over the pitch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"POTTER HAS THE SNITCH! POTTER HAS THE SNITCH! HA HA, TAKE
      <em class="calibre7">THAT</em> YOU DUMB, DIRTY, HUFFLEPUFF B—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"JORDAN!" McGonagall shouted sharply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Broomstick flyers, Professor. I was going to say broomstick
      flyers — <em class="calibre7">honest</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The score was 150-0. The Hufflepuffs were too stunned to process
      their defeat, much less respond, while close to one-third of the
      audience erupted into thunderous applause.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blimey," said Fred, who sat nearby.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're going to need to raid Honeydukes again," said George.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was, as Lee pointed out happily, the second shortest
      Quidditch match in Hogwarts History (the shortest, in 1412, ended
      before the whistle was finished blowing; the Snitch had flown
      directly down a Hufflepuff Chaser's throat. The Hufflepuff died,
      tragically, but there was much rejoicing nonetheless — it had been
      Hufflepuff's first win in over three centuries.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"N-now that y-you know the b-b-basics of D-Disarming," Quirrell
      stammered to the Duelling Club that Sunday (which had shrunk
      somewhat since their first, chess-oriented meeting), "p-p-please
      p-p-pick a p-partner and p-practice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They'd spent all morning learning Expelliarmus — or, rather,
      everyone <em class="calibre7">else</em> spent all morning learning Expelliarmus;
      Milo had been alone in the corner working out some of the kinks in
      his <em class="calibre7">Fireball</em> spell research. Quirrell's call to grab
      partners caught Milo somewhat by surprise, and he wound up
      partnered off to a first-year Ravenclaw NPC.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I w-will c-count to three," Quirrell said, "and y-you will both
      t-try to d-disarm your p-partner. <em class="calibre7">Only</em> d-disarm, M-Mister
      C-Crabbe, I s-saw that l-look."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo looked up and down the lines of students. To the upper
      years, of course, Expelliarmus was old hat — but, in Quirrell's
      words, they could always be 'b-b-better.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aren't you going to draw?" the Ravenclaw asked him
      nervously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do I look like, a sketch artist?" Milo snorted
      derisively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, your <em class="calibre7">wand</em>," the boy hissed. Milo blinked. <em class="calibre7">Oh,
      right</em>, he thought, and pulled his shiny, barely-used wand from
      his pocket. He could still smell the varnish that Ollivander (Milo
      shuddered, repressing the horrible memories) used.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One," Quirrell counted. The Ravenclaw's wand hand shook. Milo
      wondered vaguely if a local wizard could accidentally trigger a
      Silent Spell just by making the right wand motions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"T-two." Milo whistled casually, staring at the Great Hall's
      amazing ceiling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"T-Three," Quirrell finished. A great cry of
      "<em class="calibre7">Expelliarmus!</em>" rose up from the upper-years, and wands
      flew in every direction. The first- and second-years, however, were
      not generally quite so lucky. Most of their spells fizzled out
      feebly, hardly having any impact whatsoever on their target's
      wands. Hermione managed to get Ron to drop his wand, but Ron later
      confessed (out of earshot of Hermione, of course) that he dropped
      it because his hand was sweaty.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Without a doubt, the worst student off in the hall was Milo's
      poor Ravenclaw target, who found himself pinned to the ground by a
      Hippogriff that had not existed a moment before. Several nearby
      first-years turned and ran in horror, their screams echoing
      throughout the hall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fetch, Rary!" Milo called to his summoned monster. The
      Hippogriff grabbed the Ravenclaw's wand from his feebly protesting
      hand and trotted over to Milo, dropping it at his feet. "Good girl!
      Now, go back to the Upper Planes from whence you came!" Milo waved
      his hand, and the Hippogriff vanished as suddenly as it had
      arrived.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Students nearby — those who hadn't run off — backed away from
      Milo slowly. The Ravenclaw lay sobbing on the ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was horrible!" he moaned to himself. "With the talons and
      the beak and the <em class="calibre7">eyes!</em> Merlin, the eyes! The cold,
      uncaring eyes!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think I won," Milo said over the screams and tears. "You're
      disarmed." The fact that nonlethal combat and stage fights only
      award less than half XP regardless, Milo had almost paid off a week
      of item crafting with a single spell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eyes looked towards Quirrell expectantly, the Hogwarts students
      presumably waiting for him to either tell Milo off or deduct House
      Points for traumatizing children. The Defence Professor, however,
      did nothing more than watch Milo with unreadable eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">If I get 75XP for every first year I defeat in a duel</em>,
      Milo mused, <em class="calibre7">I wonder how much I could earn practicing against a
      second year</em> — <em class="calibre7">or, for that matter, a seventh
      year.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">As a couple of students carted off the gibbering Ravenclaw, Milo
      found himself face-to-face with Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look," Milo said to his bespectacled partymember. "We're an
      unbalanced party right now, and I'm higher level than you. That's
      just fact, it's not a <em class="calibre7">bad</em> thing, necessarily. Everyone
      started at level one at some point. You'll get up to my level one
      day, but until then, don't feel bad when you lose. It's really not
      your fault, I'm a wildly inappropriate CR for you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One," Quirrell counted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't worry," Harry said quietly, "I won't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Two."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Glad to hear —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Won't lose, that is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo simply chuckled softly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Th-three."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Expelliarmus!</em>" Milo stared in horror at his
      suddenly-empty gloved hand. His useless wand had been tossed
      halfway across the Great Hall, in plain view of dozens of
      witnesses. By a level one. In a <em class="calibre7">fair fight</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did you <em class="calibre7">do</em> that?" Milo exclaimed. "Half your year
      can't even <em class="calibre7">cast</em> the spell, much less on their first try
      after winning Initiative!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I dunno," Harry admitted. "The spell just, sort of, came
      naturally to me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Rematch?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure," Harry agreed. Without needing to be asked, Mordy dropped
      out of his pocket and scurried across the floor to retrieve Milo's
      wand. "Whoever's wand hits the floor first loses."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Expelliarmus!</em>" Harry cast again as soon as Quirrell
      finished counting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo's wand flew out of his hand, but abruptly stopped in midair
      a few feet behind him and floated back into his hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did you —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cast <em class="calibre7">Mage Hand</em> when you weren't looking. Also,
      <em class="calibre7">Grease</em>." The wand in Harry's hand suddenly slipped through
      the fingers of his right hand, but, with reflexes only a Seeker
      could match, he caught it adroitly with his left.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Expelliarmus!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hells!" Milo cursed as the wand flew from his fingers again.
      He'd had to break concentration on <em class="calibre7">Mage Hand</em> in order to
      cast <em class="calibre7">Grease</em>, which he'd been <em class="calibre7">certain</em> would end
      the duel.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Rematch?" Harry suggested cheerily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Count on it," Milo answered, and waited for Quirrell to start
      counting again. <em class="calibre7">I'll have to stop underestimating him</em>,
      Milo decided. <em class="calibre7">He must have Improved Initiative</em> and <em class="calibre7">a
      high Dexterity score — makes sense, considering his Quidditch
      skills.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Three," Quirrell finished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Nerveskitter! Grease!</em>" Milo called, while Harry
      shouted "<em class="calibre7">Expelliarmus!</em>" simultaneously. Both their wands
      dropped to the floor with a clatter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo picked up his wand and twirled it about his fingers idly. A
      few nearby students gave him an askance glance — if any of them
      started spinning a wand like it were a pencil, something was likely
      to catch fire.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That... was impressive," Milo admitted grudgingly. <em class="calibre7">If I'm
      level five and Harry's level one</em> (is <em class="calibre7">Harry still level
      one?) then he just got enough XP from me to level up about a dozen
      times.</em> Could <em class="calibre7">Harry level up? Do these local yokels
      even</em> have <em class="calibre7">levels, in the conventional sense? And if so, do
      they gain XP?</em> The idea seemed farfetched to him, but it wasn't
      impossible — Redcaps, for example, increased in level by dipping
      their caps into the blood of dead sentient creatures. At least,
      <em class="calibre7">his</em> Redcaps did.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," Harry said, sounding genuinely pleased. "Not like
      it'll do any good in a real battle, of course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you <em class="calibre7">kidding</em>?" Milo asked. "A no-save auto-disarm
      spell? Against enemies <em class="calibre7">incapable</em> of using magic without a
      wand in their hand? What you've got there, buddy, is a game
      changer. Sure, the other side seems awfully fond of Killing Curses
      — but really, when it comes down to it, they're tactically almost
      identical. A wandless wizard and a dead wizard are different only
      in time elapsed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose," Harry said, his brow furrowed. "Shall we call it a
      draw, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo managed to disarm another three NPCs in first- and
      second-years before running out of disarm-capable magic, at which
      point he became target practice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, yeah, laugh it up," Milo muttered, picking up his wand
      for the dozenth time in a row after some snotty punk of a Ravenclaw
      disarmed him (odd how the more he lost, the snottier and punkier
      his opponents seemed to become).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A-and I think that's all for t-t-today," Quirrell said,
      dismissing the club. Almost everybody turned to leave, but a large
      number of students (including, to Milo's satisfaction, a certain
      young Malfoy heir) had to root around to find their wands first. As
      people filed towards the exits, the turbaned professor walked over
      to where Milo was grumbling. "I h-have to ask," Quirrell said
      softly, "why are y-you in this c-club? It's n-not like you c-can
      learn anything I h-have to t-t-teach."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you kidding?" Milo asked. "I got two hundred and
      twenty-five Experience Points today. Not a patch on what I got from
      that Redcap over the holidays, but it's a respectable amount
      nonetheless."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed?" Quirrell said, and suddenly smiled. "W-well, I'm
      g-glad to hear it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The strange thing was, he really <em class="calibre7">did</em> seem happy on
      Milo's behalf. <em class="calibre7">Great</em>, Milo thought irritably. <em class="calibre7">For</em>
      once <em class="calibre7">I succeed a Sense Motive check, and</em> that's <em class="calibre7">what I
      learn? Why do I even</em> bother?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks," Milo muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"S-something you s-said last w-w-week stuck in my m-mind,"
      Quirrell said. "About s-sidequests and s-subplots."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I th-think I h-h-have one s-such opportunity," Quirrell said
      quietly. "B-but it m-m-must stay b-between us. C-can you agree
      t-t-to that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," Milo said. He knew a plot hook when he saw it; he'd
      say just about <em class="calibre7">anything</em> to get the conversation to the
      'quest offer' point.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"S-something is s-still preying on unicorns," Quirrell said
      conspiratorially.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is the Troll back?" Milo said. "I heard it ran off pretty quick
      last time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"N-no," Quirrell said. "At least, n-not to my knowledge. No, I
      b-believe s-something <em class="calibre7">else</em> is hunting the p-p-poor,
      d-defenceless, innocent unicorns."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?" Milo asked, intrigued. "So, the Troll was innocent the
      whole time? This complicates things even further," he mused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"N-now, it's e-extremely d-d-dangerous," Quirrell said, "a-and
      I'd q-quite understand if you —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm in," Milo interrupted. Adventurers, as a rule, didn't go
      around <em class="calibre7">not</em> doing extremely dangerous things. "What's the
      job?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If Quirrell was thrown by Milo's sudden agreement to help, he
      didn't show it. "There is a c-c-cave deep within the F-Forbidden
      F-F-Forest," Quirrell explained. "So d-deep it's n-nearly on the
      f-far border."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Caves are good," Milo said fervently. <em class="calibre7">Gods</em>, what he'd
      do for a decent dungeon crawl.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"N-not this c-cave, I f-fear. It's unlikely, b-but I f-f-fear
      it's p-previous ... occupants ... have r-returned."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And <em class="calibre7">they're</em> killing the unicorns for blood?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They d-do seem the t-type," Quirrell admitted, "b-being
      V-V-V-Vampires."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo gave a low whistle. He <em class="calibre7">knew</em> he hadn't been
      carrying around five pounds of garlic powder all these years in
      vain. "Why do you need my help?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell glanced from side to side nervously. "T-to t-tell the
      truth," he said, "I'm t-t-terrified. It's m-my d-d-duty as
      D-Defence Professor to investigate, but... V-V-V-V-V—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—Vampires—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, thank you, V-V-V... bloodsuckers t-terrify me. I
      w-wouldn't be asking for help if I d-didn't know you h-had so
      m-much experience w-with th-them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When do we leave?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Friday," Quirrell said. "J-just after d-dark."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo was so fixated on his conversation with Quirrell that he
      completely failed to notice that Draco Malfoy, despite having long
      since found his wand, had yet to leave the room...</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
