<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 27: Enchanter's End Game, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s24" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 27: Enchanter's End Game</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Some time before 7 AM, the villagers of Hogsmeade were surprised
      to find a dirty, bloodied, half-dead (or rather, four-thirteenths,
      to be precise, since you asked) young boy stumble into their
      village.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But, today, the boy didn't look exhausted. He didn't
      <em class="calibre7">look</em> lost, or confused, or afraid, or even hungry (making
      him practically unique among eleven-year-olds everywhere).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He just looked determined.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Someone tell Dumbledore," he said to a random NPC. "I need
      help."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm right here in front of you," the NPC replied sullenly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The boy blinked, and, his mask of determination briefly broken,
      evidently decided to reconcile the apparent impossibility in front
      of him by ignoring it. Just as quickly as he appeared, the NPC, as
      far as the boy was concerned, was deleted from existence, as was
      all non-plot-relevant information in the town. Shops, taverns, and
      potential bolt-holes were taken in with a glance and carefully
      categorized and noted for future use. Houses, paving stones,
      magical streetlights, owls, and trashbins were summarily dismissed
      as irrelevant, never even making it to his conscious brain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," the boy said aloud. "I suppose there's nothing else for
      it." Without a glance backwards, as if Hogsmeade had no further use
      for him, the boy strode out of the town and towards the castle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nobody ever wants to send for <em class="calibre7">me</em>," Aberforth said,
      sounding slightly disappointed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was surprised to find Professor Quirrell tapping his feet
      impatiently by the Fat Lady when he stumbled through the portal,
      bleary-eyed and ready for breakfast. He'd hardly gotten any sleep
      the night before; he, Ron, and Hermione had stayed awake worrying
      about Milo. The only thing that held him back from charging off to
      rescue his friend headfirst was the simple fact that none of them
      had any idea where the Death Eaters had apparated to. Hannah had
      vanished into the girls' dormitories early in the evening to be by
      herself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor?" Harry asked, bouncing with anticipation. "Have you
      found him?" There was no need to mention who he was talking
      about.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Y-yes," Quirrell said grimly, then softened slightly. "I-I'm
      s-sorry, H-Harry. I know he was a friend of yours."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Icy tendrils gripped Harry's heart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't—you can't mean—he isn't..." he trailed off
      lamely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"N-not yet," the Professor said. "B-but at this p-point, it's
      really only a matter of t-time. He was hit by a powerful curse. I'm
      s-sorry, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He couldn't believe it. It was impossible. The strange boy had,
      despite his oddities, quickly become one of Harry's best friends.
      Milo had once faced down a Troll and very nearly not gotten thrown
      out a window. He couldn't believe it would end like this; it felt
      <em class="calibre7">wrong</em>. Unfair. Like he'd been cheated out of
      something.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Isn't there <em class="calibre7">anything</em> that can be done?" Harry
      insisted. "We have all this weird, wondrous, <em class="calibre7">crazy</em> magic.
      There must be <em class="calibre7">something</em>—have you taken him to Madam
      Pomfrey? Or Saint Mungo's? Where is he—can I see him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's at Saint M-M-Mungo's," Quirrell explained. "But he's
      unconscious; their b-b-best healers are w-w-working on him.
      Unfortunately, they d-d-don't know where to b-b-begin, his
      physiology is s-so different from ours. He's slipping f-fast. I'm
      s-sorry to be the one to t-t-tell you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No. Harry refused to let this happen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can save him," Harry insisted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know y-you're d-distraught—" Quirrell began, but Harry was in
      no mood for condescension. He didn't feel distraught, oddly—he just
      felt determined. There was something that had to be done, and he
      would do it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's something in this castle that can cure any illness,"
      Harry said slowly. "It can save him. I'm sure of it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell looked stunned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Surely, you d-d-don't mean..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. We need the Philosopher's Stone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo Amastacia-Liadon slammed open the Hogwarts front gates,
      casting an embarrassingly short shadow (an eleven-year-old's
      stature does not generally lend itself to appropriate levels of
      drama) down the front hallway; the rising sun blazing a brilliant
      orange behind him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, has the ickle-wickle firstie snuck out again?" came a
      taunting, mocking voice from the air above him. Casually
      sidestepping a dropped bucket of whitewash—honestly, warning him
      before attacking? Fastest way to waste a Surprise Round against
      Flat-Footed AC he knew of—Milo glanced at the poltergeist. Just
      glanced. It had taken him the better part of a day to walk to
      Hogsmeade from the Malfoy Manor—<em class="calibre7">again</em>—not including the
      night he spent in the wilderness to regain his spells. He'd come
      too far, there was too much at stake, for him to be distracted by
      an undead clown with poor fashion sense. He couldn't see his own
      expression, of course, but whatever it was made Peeves's pale (to
      the extent that a poltergeist is able to, that is) and bolt clear
      through the wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Striding up the stairs to Dumbledore's secret office—Hermione
      thought having the Headmaster's office password-protected and
      isolated from the students contributed to an atmosphere of fear and
      suspicion, but Milo thought it was simply practical—even though he
      knew the headmaster wouldn't be there. He didn't know
      <em class="calibre7">where</em> Dumbledore would be, or what the Headmaster was
      doing, but one thing was for sure: the Otyugh was about to hit the
      <em class="calibre7">Blade Barrier</em>, and, for that to happen, all powerful,
      friendly NPCs must go.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That said, Milo's Plot-sense had been wrong before, so he at
      least had to go through the motions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sherbet Lemon," he said, and the gargoyle corkscrewed
      upwards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cautiously—Quirrell must know Milo would drop by Dumbledore's
      office before heading for him; there was always the possibility of
      a trap—he climbed the stairs and peered into the perennially
      buzzing, clicking, and whirring room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No Dumbledore. No Fawkes, even.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nerull's knees!" Milo cursed. Sometimes, he hated being right.
      Milo turned around, intending to head to the fateful third-floor
      corridor. He always knew it would come to this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait!" It was Mordy's voice. He stopped reflexively; the
      familiar hadn't yet led him astray.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why?" Milo asked. "For all we know, he's already got the Stone
      and is halfway to his master."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Remember what we decided about going alone?" The rat, sitting
      on Milo's shoulder, asked. "And, for example, what a <em class="calibre7">terrible
      idea</em> it is? No Class is a Party."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're not ready," Milo objected. "They could die." Hannah
      could die.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then we'll tip the Cleric. Worse things have happened, and can
      we really afford to pick and choose? We'll <em class="calibre7">need</em> them.
      Can't you <em class="calibre7">feel</em> it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The worst part of it was that he <em class="calibre7">could</em>. Just as he knew
      he had to first go to Dumbledore, he <em class="calibre7">knew</em>, in his heart of
      hearts, that he'd need backup—even low-level backup.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All right."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo had to force himself not to sprint down the winding,
      ever-shifting corridors to the Gryffindor Common Room—any time
      gained by running would likely be lost being harassed by Filch, who
      viewed any student running as an excuse to chase. He was assuming
      they were in the Common Room. He hoped they were. He could use
      magic to find them, of course, but he needed to save his spells for
      what was to come next.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, well, well," a particularly grating voice taunted. "What
      have we here? Little freak, all by himself?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draco," Milo said to the pale, blonde-haired boy with false
      cheerfulness. Crabbe and Goyle were flanking him, standing exactly
      half a step behind him like the rear wheels of a tricycle. They
      probably drilled the formation. "I met your dad last night. Kicked
      his ass, too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why, you lit—" Milo didn't even wait for the Slytherin to
      finish his trite, clichéd comeback. With a smooth motion, he pulled
      his darkwood quarterstaff from his belt and gave Draco a good,
      solid whack to the stomach. The expression of surprise on the
      spoiled boy's face was worth a fortune—okay, well, maybe a few
      hundred gp, tops. Milo wasn't willing to invest a significant
      amount of his allotted Wealth-By-Level in anything involving what
      amounted to a schoolyard bully. Of course, the WBL system had been
      shot to Pandemonium by Harry's massive inheritance. <em class="calibre7">The
      sentiment still stands</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Crabbe and Goyle, torn between wanting to help their master and
      take vengeance from Milo's hide, hesitated one crucial second.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo's combat skills, especially his Base Attack Bonus, were
      pitiful—by the standards of another Class of equivalent Level.
      However, from what he could tell, the local wizards (inexplicably)
      didn't seem to improve in hand-to-hand combat <em class="calibre7">at all</em>
      unless they deliberately trained in it. While this made no sense to
      Milo—<em class="calibre7">everyone</em> knew that sufficient practice in anything
      that grants Experience Points improves <em class="calibre7">all</em> aspects of
      one's Character—he had no qualms taking advantage of it. Crabbe and
      Goyle were moderately competent fighters (for eleven-year-olds),
      but Milo had them lying on their backs in twelve seconds, flat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a needlessly showy twirl, he sheathed his quarterstaff back
      into his extradimensional space and continued on toward his
      destination, not bothering to look back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy and his cronies would be back later, Milo was sure.
      Recurring villains were like pimples on a teenager in that sense.
      The harder you tried to finish them off, the more likely they were
      to show up the night of the Hallowe'en dance when you're trying to
      impress Lisa Sanders from Home Ec. One day, with a few more Levels
      under their belts, they'd likely be a genuine threat. But until
      that day... they could talk to the stick.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo left them, shocked and gasping for breath, on the hallway
      floor. A few minutes later, he rounded the final corner and arrived
      at a familiar portrait.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Password?" asked the Fat Lady.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Squeak," Milo answered impatiently, and the portrait obligingly
      swung open.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Milo!" Hermione and Ron, who were (conveniently, Milo noted)
      evidently just about to leave Gryffindor Tower for breakfast and
      class, stared at him in surprise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did you escape?" Ron was stunned. "The last we saw of you,
      you were being carried away by—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hold up," Hermione said, cutting him off. "How do we know
      you're really you this time? For all we know, you're another
      doppelganger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Another</em> Doppelganger?" Milo gasped. "I didn't realize
      you had those here, as well. And I won't be able to cast <em class="calibre7">True
      Seeing</em> for, like, five levels!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, nevermind," Hermione said with relief. "It's really you.
      How'd you get away?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No time," Milo said. He'd tell them later, in the
      Post-Adventure Between-Session Downtime Assumed Debrief. Nobody
      ever had time to waste telling people what happened when they
      weren't there for adventures for one reason or another. Instead,
      they'd handle it in the time between scenes, like sleeping or item
      crafting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where's Harry?" Milo asked. The plot here clearly revolved
      around the Boy-Who-Lived, and Milo wasn't about to embark on a
      potentially campaign-changing adventure without him. Besides, Milo
      had seen his <em class="calibre7">Expelliarmus</em> in action (and been on the
      receiving end on more than one occasion).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No idea," Ron said. "He left ages ago to get breakfast; haven't
      seen him since."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo sighed. "And you didn't think to check up on that? No, I
      know, it's not your fault, you didn't know. By the way, Quirrell's
      our guy. He's been evil all along."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wh—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No time, I'll explain along the way. Let's move."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where are we going?" Hermione asked curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where else?" Milo asked. "The forbidden third-floor corridor.
      It was always going to end there, one way or another."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, about Quirrell. I can't believe he's really—" Hermione
      began skeptically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—he's really evil. I can't believe it," she said, stunned, as
      they approached the forbidden door and Milo finished his boring,
      off-screen exposition. "We should tell Dumbledore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can't," Milo said. "Believe it or not, I tried that
      already—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—You did <em class="calibre7">what</em>? I mean, Quirrell was surprising enough,
      but <em class="calibre7">you</em>? Going to a legitimate authority figure in a time
      of crisis? I mean, what is the world coming to?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—and he wasn't in his office, obviously."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean, obviously?" Ron asked, his forehead
      wrinkled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo was about to launch into an explanation of how the powerful
      NPC ally <em class="calibre7">had</em> to be out of the way to move the plot
      forward—Milo suspected an explanation would be forthcoming
      eventually about how he had important paperwork to do in East
      Nowhere or something—but, surprisingly, Hermione beat him to
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, it makes perfect sense. I mean, think about it," she said.
      "Quirrell wouldn't make his move for the Stone if Dumbledore was
      actually <em class="calibre7">in</em> the castle. That would be like trying to, I
      don't know, hold up a police station or kidnap an auror: suicide.
      So he waited this long to make his move."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...Right," Milo added. "What she said. Excellent deduction,
      grasshopper."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Grass</em>—" she sputtered indignantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Team! Focus! Big wooden door to get past, boy wizard to save,"
      Ron said with exasperation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, right," Hermione said. "<em class="calibre7">Aloho</em>—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—Wait!" Milo cried.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" she asked testily. "I was just about to unlock it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, you weren't. Do you think they'd lock the Philosopher's
      Stone behind a door that could be opened by a first-year
      student—even a brilliant first-year student—in a <em class="calibre7">school for
      magic</em>? The door is likely trapped. Dumbles even warned us:
      'the third-floor corridor on the right-hand side is out of bounds
      for anyone who does not want to die a horrible and painful death.'
      It's trapped with something <em class="calibre7">gnarly</em>. Probably the wanded
      wizard equivalent of a <em class="calibre7">Fire Trap</em> or something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good point," Hermione said, looking somewhat pale.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did you remember his exact wording like that?" Ron asked.
      "You can't remember <em class="calibre7">anything</em>. Remember the Cuddly
      Cannons?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I don't. I just used Autohypnosis to memorize the Plot last
      time I had a chance to see it. Took a while with, er..." he was
      going to say 'with my low Wisdom,' but at the last minute changed
      it to "the primordial forces Arcane being as they were. The ley
      lines were all a-flux," Milo had once heard a Bard futilely try to
      make a Spellcraft check, and quoted him mercilessly, "and there was
      a fae disturbance in the realms of spirit, beyond the veil."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, what do you suggest we do, exactly?" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shrugged. His usual plan was to send the Rogue in, tied to
      a rope (thus making it easier to retrieve the body, and all her
      ill-gotten loot). "Torch the door."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Hermione looked at him as if he had just suggested she
      sell her mother to Goblin slavers. "Why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We know this isn't the only layer of defence—there used to be a
      giant three-headed dog on the other side of this wall, and
      presumably there's more beyond. This door is to keep out
      <em class="calibre7">thieves</em>, not a frontal assault. That comes later.
      Dumbledore probably assumed that anyone crazy enough to try to
      destroy a door in the middle of a public hallway would be caught by
      passerbys."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Passersby," Hermione corrected idly, obviously thinking hard.
      "And I think you're wrong. Dumbledore doesn't think nearly as
      twisty as you do, and he wouldn't put a trapped door in the middle
      of what was, as you pointed out, a public hallway. He's more the
      type to <em class="calibre7">say</em> the door led to certain death, but, really,
      still give the person sneaking through more than one chance to
      escape with their life. That dog you mentioned was chained
      down—<em class="calibre7">out of reach</em> of the doorway. So someone
      <em class="calibre7">accidentally</em> breaking in could see the dog and, if they
      have any sense, which by the way we seem not to have, flee. The
      door is only locked."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You might be right," Milo conceded, "except on one point.
      Dumledore's mind is twistier than mine could ever be."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Alohomora</em>," Hermione cast as Milo discreetly moved to
      stand behind Ron, just in case.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The lock clicked open.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Milo said. "We have no idea what's on the other side of
      this door. Quirrell killed the dog already, passing it off as
      necessary to save Hermione. He could have replaced it with
      <em class="calibre7">anything</em>. Trolls, Giants," he glanced at Ron and grinned,
      "Giant Trolls, Dragons, whatever."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's your point?" Ron asked. "We're going in anyway. We both
      know it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What I'm saying is: be ready for anything." Milo calmly drew
      his staff and traded his knife from his extradimensional Belt
      pocket to a more-easily-reached sheath, then checked his Magic
      Items to be certain. Robe, Belt, Amulet, Gloves, Headband, check.
      He took a deep breath. "All right, party. It's taken us long
      enough. Let's do this thing," and pushed the door open with his
      gloved hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Author's Notes: <em class="calibre7">I'm Back.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">AKA "We now return you to your regularly-scheduled <em class="calibre7">fantastic
      fan fiction.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">AAKA If you don't get the reference in the chapter title, go
      read <em class="calibre7">anything</em> by David (and Leigh) Eddings. You won't
      regret it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">AAAKA Merry Christmas, Internet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(But seriously, short updates suck – but better short than
      never. I decided to stop being a perfectionist and just release it,
      warts and all. Fixing of typos and whatnot will come later. If this
      keeps up, I'll have your next update Thursday or Friday of next
      week.)</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
