<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 32: Dumble-dénouement, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s29" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 32: Dumble-dénouement</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">"Tell me again why you carry a grappling hook at all times,
      mate?" Ron asked, giving Milo's silk rope a hefty tug. He had an
      ugly bruise on his temple, and likely an assortment of minor
      injuries, but was otherwise okay. "And a rope, for that
      matter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Came in handy, didn't it?" Milo pointed between pulls.
      "<em class="calibre7">Every</em> adventurer has at <em class="calibre7">least</em> fifty feet of
      rope. Some carry hundreds."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Getting back up the shaft that led to the Devil's Snare seemed,
      at first, an insurmountable problem—until Milo remembered he still
      had rope in his belt. Hermione levitated it up to the surface and
      latched the grappling hook onto the heavy cast iron ring the
      trapdoor used as a handle. Climbing up wasn't exceptionally
      difficult (a rope with a wall to brace against was a mere DC 5 with
      a 10 point reduction for having a wall to brace against. A
      paraplegic triple-amputee could make the check). No, the hard part
      was getting the still-unconscious Professor Quirrell to the top. In
      the end, they simply tied the rope around his waist and shoulders
      and decided to pull him up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Reckon we should have just left him there," Harry muttered. He
      still looked pale and shaky from Quirrell's torture spell, but
      hadn't mentioned it. The others decided to drop it, though Hermione
      gave him occasional concerned looks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's a <em class="calibre7">Hogwarts Professor!</em>" Hermione sounded
      scandalized. "We can't just <em class="calibre7">leave</em> him!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We could have told McGonagall or Dumbledore, and <em class="calibre7">they</em>
      would have gone down and got him. Besides, he <em class="calibre7">did</em> try to
      kill us all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione made a <em class="calibre7">hmph!</em> sound, but dropped the issue. It
      took several more minutes, but they eventually got Quirrell's limp
      body up to the room where Fluffy once stood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know," Ron mused as he grabbed the Professor by the
      shoulders and dragged him onto the floor, "We likely could have
      just levitated him, like Hermione did the rope."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's far too heavy," Hermione pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For all three of us at once?" Ron asked. "It wouldn't have
      taken a moment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry, Hermione, and Milo stared at him for a few seconds in
      total silence. Hermione opened her mouth like she was going to
      speak, then fell silent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why me?" she asked nobody in particular.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I, for one, can think of no witch more suited for the task,"
      someone said from the doorway. Milo, keenly aware he had only five
      hit points remaining (he'd gained three upon levelling up), not to
      mention no spells more powerful than <em class="calibre7">Acid Splash</em>, warily
      turned to the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor!" Harry said in relief. In the doorway was none other
      than Professor Dumbledore, still dressed in the same purple robes
      he'd worn to Lucius's Manor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed, that is my chosen vocation. Quick, as always, Mister
      Potter. Now, could somebody please illuminate me as to what in
      <em class="calibre7">Merlin's</em> name is going on in my school?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone spoke at once.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Voldemort—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lucius—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Please</em> don't tell my mum—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I <em class="calibre7">know</em> you said we weren't to enter the forbidden
      corridor, but—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore simply waited patiently while they all told the
      story, as they saw it, beginning at different times and,
      frequently, in backwards, frontwards, and, occasionally sidewards
      order.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, you mean to say that Quirinus—while under the sway of
      Voldemort—led young Milo out into the forest where a group of
      masked men led by Lucius Malfoy intercepted them, inadvertently
      foiling the plans of their incognito master, captured Milo,
      Disapparated back to their manor, only to have Milo escape and
      return to Hogwarts while the Defence Professor took Harry under the
      false pretenses of needing his help to rescue Milo—who needed no
      help, it appears, after all—to find the Philosopher's Stone,
      assuming that Harry would be able to breach whatever defences I had
      placed, only to be foiled by Milo, Ron, and Hermione?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Was... was that all one sentence, Professor?" Milo asked in
      awe—partly by the feat of linguistics, but mainly that the
      Headmaster had managed to listen to all four of them
      simultaneously. <em class="calibre7">Probably comes from a supernaturally-extended
      lifetime of teaching teenagers</em>. "Also, yes. That's pretty much
      how it happened."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well," Dumbledore sighed, and gestured for them to follow
      him. "I think, perhaps, it would be best if we returned to my
      office to discuss this matter further."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where were you?" Harry asked <em class="calibre7">en route</em>. There was a
      faint accusatory note in his voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Ministry," Dumbledore said. "The reasons for which should
      become clear once we reach my office." The mild rebuke was enough
      to make Harry look at his feet and remain silent for the rest of
      the short, winding walk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Upon entering the office, Dumbledore sat down on his customary
      chintz armchair, and, his fingers forming a steeple in front of
      him, spoke.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I assume you have questions," he said. "I will, if at all
      possible, answer to within the best of my ability. But first, to
      answer Harry's: I was at the Ministry. After I was tipped off by a
      certain... trusted source that Milo was held within one of the
      Malfoy's estates, I wasted no time in informing friends within the
      Department of Magical Law Enforcement and assisting in what is, I
      believe, generally called a <em class="calibre7">raid</em>. Incidentally, this was
      also my first clue as to Professor Quirrell's deception—he came to
      me with his story that Milo was held by vampires. I did not,
      however, realize the full extent of the situation until well later.
      By that point, I was bogged down with what I daresay was a
      <em class="calibre7">tremendous</em> quantity of paperwork. It appears that
      deploying Aurors without warning against one of the more
      well-respected members of the wizarding community of Magical
      Britain is not without cost."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So they caught Malfoy, then?" Milo was surprised. He hadn't
      thought that their scuffle in the manor would be the last they'd
      see of him. There were too many unanswered questions for that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alas, no," Dumbledore sighed. "Officially, a pair of deranged
      wizards attempting to revive the criminal organization known as the
      Death Eaters broke into Malfoy's residence in an attempt to punish
      him for his betrayal at the end of the war. Their actions were, it
      appears, independent and without support from others."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But that's not true!" Harry insisted. "He was one of them! You
      have to believe us!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I do, dear boy. But that doesn't change the fact that it
      will take more substantial evidence for the Ministry to mobilize in
      full. In the meantime, be comforted in knowing that there are those
      within the Ministry who are working diligently—and, unfortunately,
      secretly—to uncover the truth of the matter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't look particularly happy, but let the matter
      rest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have a question, Headmaster," Ron interjected. "How did
      You-Know-Who get to be on the back of another bloke's head?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unicorn's blood," Dumbledore said sadly. "It can be used to
      prolong one's life almost indefinitely, but at the cost of being
      doomed to living an unnatural half-life."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unnatural is bloody right," Ron muttered. "Er, sorry
      Professor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not to worry," the Professor said, "I was momentarily
      distracted by a delightful passing bluebird, and seem to have
      missed everything you said just then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er. Right."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So," Harry said slowly, "Is he gone, then? Voldemort?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm afraid not," Dumbledore said gravely. "I don't know if it
      will be a year or ten, but I can be certain that he will
      return."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How could you know?" Milo asked. "There's no telling the crazy
      results when our forms of magic interact. Mind, he's
      <em class="calibre7">obviously</em> not gone—it's the only thing that makes sense,
      he has to be the <em class="calibre7">final</em> boss, and this was <em class="calibre7">hardly</em>
      final—but still. By you people's standards of <em class="calibre7">logic</em>, the
      Amulet may well have finished him off."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"While that may be a possibility," Dumbledore admitted,
      "Harbouring it would reduce our vigilance for his return. In
      general, I have found that, when it comes to dealing with
      Voldemort, it is best to hope for the best, prepare for the worst,
      and, when it comes to it, expect even worse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Also, young Milo, I have access to certain sources that you do
      not."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fair enough," Milo admitted. "Now, what happens to the Defence
      Professor?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That depends," Dumbledore admitted. "I will have to talk to him
      when he awakes. The question to determine is to what amount he was
      a willing supporter of Voldemort, and what amount he was a slave.
      Based on your stories, it appears that he <em class="calibre7">deliberately</em>
      took action to expel Voldemort's spirit from his body, which
      implies it was some of the former. I can scarcely imagine living a
      life such as that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh?" Harry asked, curious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To my limited understanding of the process, Professor
      Quirrell's resident, so to speak, had the power to read the
      Professor's mind directly. Any plan that Professor Quirrell
      developed could be immediately detected by Voldemort, who
      could—and, knowing him, would—punish his servant severely."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you suggesting that Quirrell had to develop and
      <em class="calibre7">execute</em> his plan without, at any step along the way,
      consciously <em class="calibre7">thinking</em> about it?" Milo asked
      incredulously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is that even <em class="calibre7">possible</em>?" Hermione was stunned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will need to speak to him to be certain, but it would appear
      to be so," Dumbledore responded. "It is entirely possible that he
      set up the entire chain of events that led to him getting his hands
      on Milo's amulet deliberately. Or, perhaps more likely, he seized
      on the opportunity provided by his master's distracted state,
      caused by the brave young Mister Potter here. Whatever the case, it
      still remains to be determined whether or not he was, well..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...Evil?" Harry suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In essence. If so, I shall turn him over to the Ministry
      without delay. But if not... I might consider offering him a
      teaching position. There is, however, one thing I can say for
      certain."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what's that?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come next term, he will no longer be the Defence
      Professor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do you know?" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Call it an old man's intuition," Dumbledore smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have a question, Professor," Hermione said. "What will you do
      with the Philosopher's Stone now? And, for that matter—where
      <em class="calibre7">is</em> it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah," Dumbledore said with a mischievous grin. "It was in the
      Mirror all along. However, I had bewitched it only to give it to
      someone who wanted the Stone—but not to use it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So he was right!" Milo exclaimed. "You <em class="calibre7">had</em> set the
      Mirror up as some kind of elaborate test of character!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I failed?" Harry asked. "Wait..." he looked at the
      Headmaster for a second, then suddenly laughed. "He sabotaged
      himself!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excuse me?" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He guessed it was a test of character, but he told me that he
      needed the Stone to save Milo," Harry explained. "So..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you wanted to use it," Milo said, grinning. "You were
      desperate to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed," Dumbledore said. "And as for the Stone... it is not
      fully my decision to make. I'll send word to Nicolas Flamel, and
      together we will decide what is best. However, I think that, for
      now, it would be best if you all went to see Poppy in the Hospital
      Wing." As they all turned to leave, he added, "Except for you,
      Mister Amastacia-Liadon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo sat down as the others left, feeling somewhat concerned.
      "What's up?" he asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I believe it has come time for us to discuss what to do about
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh?" Milo asked apprehensively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, the simple fact of the matter is that, forgive me, you
      don't fully fit in here," Dumbledore said, "your form of magic
      being all but completely incompatible with that which is taught in
      this school. I can think of any number of wizarding families that
      would be happy to have you stay with them until such a time as we
      can figure how to return you to your home."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are... are you kicking me out?" Milo was floored. Sure, the
      magic was different—and he was failing Transfiguration and
      Potions—but he'd never imagined that he'd be thrown out like this.
      "Because, quite frankly Professor, you're mistaken."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh? On which issue?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hogwarts <em class="calibre7">is</em> my home," Milo said firmly. "And I've
      never felt that way about anywhere else."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well," Dumbledore said slowly. "I must confess, I had
      thought you wanted nothing more than to leave. But, seeing as that
      is not the case, you might want to look to your studies. Minerva is
      your Head of House, and she is well within her power to expel you
      for your grades, which, I am told, are somewhat less than
      doughty."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I'm doing my best!" Milo protested. "I can't
      <em class="calibre7">actually</em> <em class="calibre7">do</em> your magic! How am I supposed to
      pass?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You seem to have managed in at least four courses," Dumbledore
      pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Two of which have no magic involved whatsoever," Milo
      countered, "and in Charms, I just got lucky. One of my spells is
      similar to the Hovering Charm, which is basically the only actual
      spell Flitwick taught us. The rest was theory. Thank the gods above
      and below that he didn't ask me to Hover anything
      <em class="calibre7">sideways</em>, or I'd have been up the Styx without a paddle."
      <em class="calibre7">Levitate</em> could only move things vertically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I understand, dear boy, I do—but I'm not, quite frankly,
      certain what I can do about it. You see, currently, I am the only
      member of the faculty aware of the nature of your powers—though
      Minerva knows some of it, and Poppy is developing suspicions that
      you are, in fact, an 'Eldritch Horror from Beyond Time Come to Sow
      Destruction.' I could inform them, but it would come at the risk of
      letting your secret get out to the wider world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see the problem," Milo said reluctantly. "I
      might—<em class="calibre7">might</em>—be able to fake my way through
      Transfiguration." He'd need a week to plan at least, and likely a
      month of spell research. "The other courses are, so far, not much
      problem—though, I suspect, at higher levels DADA will become less
      theory and more application, in which case I will be in trouble.
      But, in Potions, there's nothing I can do." Even if he took the
      suboptimal Brew Potion feat, he could still only make <em class="calibre7">his</em>
      kind—that is to say, Arcane—Potions, which were very specific in
      their nature, effect, and brewing process.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then there is, happily, no problem," Dumbledore said broadly.
      "Graduation with a T in Potions is perfectly acceptable, though
      not, of course, strictly encouraged. In fact, I can pass word
      around that you were strongly traumatized from a young age by
      certain potions, and, as a result, have a severe psychological
      handicap to overcome. It might make things somewhat easier for
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You wouldn't even be lying," Milo added happily. "I'm severely
      traumatized by Potions every time I go into Snape's classroom."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well, I believe this matter is settled," Dumbledore said
      with a glint in his eye. Milo was reminded once more that he was
      speaking to someone considerably wilier than himself, and wondered
      whether or not this had been the intended outcome of the
      conversation. "Now, I have just one more question for you,"
      Dumbledore said slowly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Professor?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What was your mother's name?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ley Amastacia." The question caught him completely by surprise,
      and Milo answered without thinking. He stared at Dumbledore for a
      moment before the knut dropped. "Pelor, Nerull and Kord!" he
      exclaimed. "My backstory!" The moment he said it, he <em class="calibre7">knew</em>
      that his mother's name was Ley, and could almost picture her
      face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore simply smiled. "I think, if you move alacritously,
      you may be able to catch your friends before they reach the
      hospital wing. If you do see them, could you tell them that all
      four of you earned fifty house points each? Oh—and, if you could
      ask Harry to come visit sometime this evening, it would be much
      appreciated."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Th-thank you, Professor," Milo stammered. He was still too
      surprised by his sudden discovery to fully process what was going
      on. His backstory was working again—but it seemed somewhat
      different from before. Back then, the answers simply appeared as
      necessary, but now... it was as if Milo had been the one to will
      them into existence. This warranted further thought and
      experimentation—but for now, he would just enjoy what had happened.
      He had to level up, sooner or later he'd have to deal with the
      consequences of beating Malfoy and his mooks senseless, and figure
      out a plan to turn a matchstick into a pin, but that could
      (hopefully) be done another day.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Milo turned the doorknob, Dumbledore spoke once more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh—and Milo? I'm proud of you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Author's Notes: Fear not! <em class="calibre7">Harry Potter and the Natural
      20</em> is not over yet! Next week's chapter will be mini-epilogues
      (a couple of largely disjointed short stories covering a few things
      left to wrap up) which will then be followed by year two, maybe
      after a week or two of planning, <em class="calibre7">Harry Potter and the Confirmed
      Critical</em>. For simplicity's sake, as far as Fanfiction is
      concerned they'll be the same fic (The first chapter of book two
      will be Chapter 34 of <em class="calibre7">Harry Potter and the Natural 20</em>).
      That way, you don't need to worry about finding and subscribing to
      a new fic.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
