<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 6: Crime Scene Investigation, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s3" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 6: Crime Scene Investigation</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Author's Notes: Thank you to all of the nice reviews I've gotten
      (they make my day), and to Blinded in a Bolthole in particular for
      helping me rewrite my summary.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Don't forget that you can check my Author page for a link to
      Milo's character sheet and the free Fantasy, Sci-Fi, and/or Modern
      RPG, Semiautomagic, that I'm working on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Throughout the day, several Gryffindor wellwishers came to visit
      Milo in the hospital wing. Apparently, word had spread of his
      run-in with the acromantula, and the rumours had quickly gotten out
      of hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We heard you fought off a horde of giant spiders, mate —" said
      one of the Weasley twins (Milo decided, for convenience's sake, to
      call him George).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"— and save a beautiful unicorn princess —" said Fred
      (maybe).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"— which is unusual, because unicorns tend to be male —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"— and also managed to rescue Professor Quirrell —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"— while growing increasingly weak from spider venom —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"— defeated You-Know-Who for good —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"— became king of the Goblins —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"— found a Philosopher's Stone —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"— so now, you can live forever —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"— discovered a <em class="calibre7">thirteenth</em> use for dragon's blood
      —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"— <em class="calibre7">and</em> that you're still an available bachelor —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"— but maybe not for long, based on the rate these stories are
      spreading."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Following the conversation was somewhat dizzying, but sort of
      entertaining as well. Hannah and Lavender dropped by with candy
      (though the people in this strange land called them "sweets," which
      Milo supposed was generally accurate, with the exception of several
      trillion flavours of the Every-Flavoured Beans), and Lavender
      apologized for her behaviour during detention. Milo appreciated the
      gesture, but was somewhat suspicious of wizarding candy as a whole
      – he remembered Harry's chocolate frogs trying to escape back on
      the train (Milo shuddered at the thought of that mechanical
      monstrosity) and the more unpleasant flavours of the
      every-flavoured beans.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione, naturally, brought him copies of her class notes from
      the ones he missed (Milo copied them all into a notebook with
      <em class="calibre7">Amanuensis</em> (an obscure 0th-level spell that copies text
      rapidly) and then read it with <em class="calibre7">Scholar's Touch</em> (an
      invaluable 1st-level spell that reads an entire <em class="calibre7">book</em> (and
      not, say, a stack of loose-leaf) in a few seconds)).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron approached somewhat sheepishly to apologise for not going to
      the forest with him and Harry, but said that it was really for the
      best because he was absolutely useless around spiders and would
      probably just have gotten in the way. Milo forgave him, and they
      played a game of Wizard's chess, which was just like regular chess
      except the pieces were apparently intelligent. It really changes
      the game when, instead of sending a rook forwards to be sacrificed,
      you're sending up an old, tired wooden soldier begging to be
      allowed to live and return to his family (he had a pair of pawns to
      take care of, after all), yet nonetheless resigned to his fate. Ron
      won, of course, because Milo couldn't remember ever playing chess
      before. He knew the rules, oddly, but had no memories of an actual
      game — probably because he was still cut off from any of his
      backstory not yet explicitly stated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While he recovered from his ability score damage, Milo tried to
      solve the puzzle of the spider bite. There was, without a doubt, an
      ugly injury caused by a fang in his side. However, Milo was
      <em class="calibre7">absolutely certain</em> that he hadn't been bitten. Even if the
      spider tried, Milo had <em class="calibre7">Mage Armour</em> and <em class="calibre7">Protection from
      Evil,</em> which gave him a net boost of +6 to Armour Class,
      assuming the spider was evil (which it totally was). It was
      improbable, though not impossible, that the spider had hit him in
      one attack. But between being blinded and off-balance from Milo's
      magic, he really doubted the acromantula had a chance — unless he'd
      been bit <em class="calibre7">before</em> Milo started his attack. But <em class="calibre7">that</em>
      was impossible because Milo was invisible, and had illusions up
      besides…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He frowned. <em class="calibre7">No, it</em> really <em class="calibre7">can't have been before I
      became visible, and</em> probably <em class="calibre7">wasn't when the spider was
      blinded</em>. Milo could account for the spider's actions during
      the duration based on the number of mirror images it destroyed and
      the number of spells he cast.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">This doesn't add up at all</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then there was the matter of Snape. If Snape had been trying
      to kill him, why did he brew an antidote? Was it really some sort
      of terrible, slow-acting poison that would kill Milo over the
      course of weeks, making it look natural? But why bother — he could
      have just left Milo to succumb to the acromantula venom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No, there must be another player at work here. Snape was evil,
      sure — but he wasn't actively trying to kill Milo. He might not
      even have realized, yet, that Milo was a threat to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, mate," Harry said, breaking him out of his thought
      process. Milo hadn't noticed the boy entering the room. "Sorry I
      didn't come earlier, we had broomstick lessons — it turns out I can
      fly really well! I don't have any idea where the skill came from, I
      was always rubbish at P.E. — and anyway, Draco must still be mad
      from that time on the train, so he stole Nev's Remembrall (poor
      fellow just got out of St. Mungo's) and ran off with it. Anyway,
      I'm rambling. The point is, I got it back, but McGonagall saw and
      <em class="calibre7">guess what</em> — I'm on the Quidditch team!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, the game with six pointless players and one PC?" Milo
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah! And I'm the Seeker!" Harry said excitedly. "Hermione's
      upset because it's against the rules and thinks McGonagall
      shouldn't have made an exception, but Ron is beside himself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's pretty cool. Bet you'll catch the Snitch — like, really.
      Ten gold pieces — <em class="calibre7">Galleons</em>, whatever — that you win the
      first match by the skin of your teeth."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're on, but I probably won't be able to pay you for a while
      when I lose. My money's all in Gringott's," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh?" Milo asked. "What's Gringott's?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's this big underground thing, full of dragons and run by
      goblins," Harry said. "I was there once, it was actually kinda
      scary."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo's ears literally perked up upon hearing this (he was
      one-sixty-fourth elf).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Goblins got your gold, eh?" he asked. "Well, well, well. Sounds
      to me like we have a dungeon crawl in our future," he said
      excitedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's a dungeon crawl? Is that some sort of dance? Only, I've
      never danced before," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What? No. It's where you go into a big underground thing, full
      of dragons and run by goblins, and come out with piles and piles of
      gold," Milo explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I've done that already," Harry commented. "Though I left
      most of the gold behind for later."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You— you did <em class="calibre7">what</em> now? I think you're not really
      getting into the spirit of the thing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I was with Hagrid, and he only let me take so much
      out—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, that makes sense. Higher level character, he probably did
      most of the work to get there. Still, try to argue for an even
      split next time. If you play your cards right, you could wind up
      way ahead of your WBL," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My what?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wealth By Level," Milo said. "It's the average amount of total
      money, in cash, magic items, fortresses, that kind of thing, that a
      person has based on their level. So like, a powerful wizard can use
      a <em class="calibre7">Broom of Flying</em> to clean his floors with because he can
      afford twelve, while a lower-level wizard couldn't even get
      one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," said Harry. "Here, we just call it capitalism."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Weird. So, what's the deal with this Hagrid guy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, he's a giant, he's my friend — he took me from the Dursleys
      — and lives in a hut outside the castle. Takes care of the grounds
      and things. He actually sent me a letter inviting me down to visit
      him," Harry said. "I think I'll head down later this evening."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh. So tell me, did you notice anything weird about Quirrell's
      stutter last night?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean, two nights ago?" Harry asked. Milo nodded, he was
      still sort of disoriented from sleeping all day. Harry frowned. "I
      can't swear to it, but I <em class="calibre7">think</em>, just briefly, he was
      talking normally. Maybe he was so frightened that he sort of
      stuttered so far he wrapped around and came back the other
      side?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, maybe," Milo said. There was something he was missing, he
      was <em class="calibre7">sure</em> of it. His forehead wrinkled with deep thought.
      "Okay, hang on. Describe Quirrell to me, and pretend I've never met
      him before, okay?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at Milo like he'd gone crazy (Milo was used to that
      look by now) but complied. Quirrell: had a verbal tic (one) wore a
      weird turban (two) was completely spineless (three) but could
      apparently summon courage when necessary (four!) and emanated an
      odour of garlic (<em class="calibre7">five</em>).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh my gods," Milo said. "How could I have been so stupid?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, what is it?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Five adjectives! <em class="calibre7">Nobody</em> gets five adjectives so soon
      after meeting them!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's just like on the train, remember? When I told you to write
      down everyone who could be described with more than two adjectives?
      It's why we go on adventures with Ron and not Dean or Seamus. The
      more unique a person is, the more important they are."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, what does this mean?" Harry asked. He was beginning to feel
      that Milo's sanity was much like Quirrell's stutter: he went so far
      through insane that he came out the other side, and started making
      sense. Well, kind of.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It means Quirrell is big news, but it's too early to say yet
      which side he's on. I feel like there's something I should be
      <em class="calibre7">remembering</em> but just can't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean, like your parents?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, like something someone said in passing but I didn't write
      down. Can I see your notes?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, you mean, like from Herbology?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, not those. The adventure notes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, sure," Harry said, pulling the lists that Milo had asked
      him to write from his bag. There were the lists of mysterious
      things people had said, of unexplained events, and of important
      characters. Milo pointed out <em class="calibre7">Quidditch: Seeker is for PCs</em>
      with some satisfaction, but otherwise the search was fruitless.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, well. It was worth a shot. Maybe we'll hear something
      that'll make all of this make sense," Milo sighed. "Until then,
      we'll just keep listening closely."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His next visitor after Harry left was quite unexpected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, we meet again, Malfoy." Milo said coolly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed, we do at that," Malfoy sneered. "I just came to see if
      you were really as weak, injured, helpless, and alone as they
      say."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, are you threatening me? Is this really happening? Because
      as I remember, I've got you two for two, Slytherin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not a threat, no, not at all," Malfoy said, and grinned. "Just
      thought I'd drop by, say hi, wish you well and tell you <em class="calibre7">I know
      what you're up to</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What I'm — I mean, you don't know anything. <em class="calibre7">Fool</em>."
      Milo said, but quietly his mind raced. What <em class="calibre7">was</em> Milo up
      to? Not much, really. Just sort of blundering through encounter
      after encounter, so far; brute forcing his way through problems
      with magic. But active plotting? Not so much.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And more importantly, my <em class="calibre7">father</em> knows," Malfoy said.
      "And my father controls the Wizengamot." Malfoy grinned. "I'd keep
      an eye on the morning paper, if I were you." He moved to leave, but
      paused. "Fortunately," he added, "I am not you." He then walked
      off, whistling softly to himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that was cryptic," Milo mused to himself. "I'm starting
      to think I should maybe figure out what in Baator is going on
      before I wind up there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To do that, he had to go to the library. To do <em class="calibre7">that</em>, he
      had to get out of this accursed hospital bed — but that wouldn't
      happen until he had healed to Madam Pomfrey's satisfaction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"New plan," he said. "Bring the library to me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He asked for <em class="calibre7">what</em>?" McGonagall asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He wants to borrow half the library," Madam Pince, the
      librarian, said calmly. "Said he didn't want to get behind in his
      studies, and that he would just start at A and work his way down to
      Z"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't we have rules against this?" McGonagall asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, frankly, it's never come up," said the librarian. "Until
      Hermione Granger, nobody ever took out more than a book or two at a
      time. Most students only read when they absolutely have no other
      option, and even then, generally only the Ravenclaws."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well… I feel we have no choice but to allow it, save,
      obviously, those in the Forbidden Section," McGonagall said. "Lest
      we encourage rule-breaking among the students by example. I'll
      allocate a few first-year Gryffindors to help transfer the books, I
      suppose. You owe me a favour, though, Irma."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The professors had started using Gryffindor's detention hours as
      the basis of a crude barter system. Snape had been selling them at
      a premium price, mostly to get out of his scheduled time patrolling
      the corridors of Hogwarts and dealing with Peeves. They were then
      re-sold between the professors in exchange for favours, assistance,
      and occasionally even money (the going rate three knuts per hour
      per student, well below what minimum wage would be if the wizarding
      world had a minimum wage). The students, of course, knew nothing of
      this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Scholar's Touch,</em>" Milo cast, and tapped a handful of
      books. He could read four per casting, and could cast the spell
      nine times. Mordy's head perked up as his brain, too, was flooded
      with information. Milo tossed the books into a rapidly-growing
      Finished pile, and reached for the top few books in the To Read
      pile, which was less of a pile and more of a small mountain.
      "<em class="calibre7">Scholar's Touch, Scholar's Touch, Scholar's Touch, Scholar's
      Touch…</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The next morning, Milo was finally allowed out of the hospital
      wing. He was still under strict orders not to exert himself, and to
      avoid any undue stress. As a result, he was freed from the
      gruelling labour that the teachers were forcing the Gryffindors to
      undertake by way of detention. He walked, somewhat gingerly, down
      to the Great Hall for breakfast. As he entered, he made sure to
      affect an exaggerated limp and weak pace. He staggered towards the
      Hall, and pushed open the massive double-doors dramatically. He was
      deliberately a few minutes late, ensuring that the enormous chamber
      was more-or-less full, thus maximizing the impact.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Conversation in the room dimmed to a murmur as he walked
      silently down to the Gryffindor table, and sat down between Hannah
      and Ron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey," he said casually. "I miss anything?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nice entrance," said Ron. "Though I think you were missing some
      sort of dramatic announcement, like 'that dragon won't bother us
      again anytime soon,' or possibly, 'the time has come.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Everyone's a critic," Milo sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't be rude, Ron," Hannah said. "Or should I call Lavender
      back to have another little <em class="calibre7">talk</em> with you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron's face paled, and he fell silent. Hermione, Milo noticed,
      was very pointedly not speaking with Ron. Milo shrugged. The
      intricacies of most social interaction were lost on him, and they
      seemed largely pointless anyways.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I want everyone to keep a careful eye on Malfoy," Milo said.
      "He's up to something, but I'm not sure what, yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure thing, mate." Ron said as the owl post arrived. Milo
      questioned the hygiene of having a flock of owls flying in during
      breakfast every morning, but as he always ate from his
      perfectly-sterile <em class="calibre7">Everlasting Rations</em> anyways, he didn't
      mention anything. Also, <em class="calibre7">owls</em>? Seriously?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A particularly large package was delivered to Harry, carried by
      three owls working in unison.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Oh, that reminds me," he said to the Gryffindors. "Anyone got a
      copy of the <em class="calibre7">Daily Profit</em> — sorry, <em class="calibre7">Prophet</em> — that
      I can borrow?" A flood of papers were offered to him immediately.
      Milo grinned. Celebrity had its perks, apparently. His newfound
      fame for defeating the acromantula apparently overshadowed the
      hatred for his losing 110 house points.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks," he said, grabbing one from some random NPC.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked at the cover, and nearly dropped it in surprise. Not
      because of the headlines, or even the content of the newspaper at
      all, but because the photo on the cover — of some smiling blond
      wizard being awarded a medal — was <em class="calibre7">moving</em>. Someone out
      there saw fit to cast <em class="calibre7">some</em> kind of spell, Milo wasn't even
      sure what would do this (some sort of Illusion, perhaps?) on
      <em class="calibre7">every single one</em> of these papers. Or, gods forbid, they
      were all magic items, each costing XP. If each newspaper cost even
      one Experience Point to make… Milo shuddered, imagining the
      soul-sucking factory needed to produce these tabloids, where
      wizards were dragged in <em class="calibre7">en masse</em> to be drained of the
      essence of their power, left a shallow husk of themselves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shook his head to clear his mind, and started scanning the
      headlines. <em class="calibre7">Gringott's Break-in Still Unsolved…</em> Nope, not
      that. <em class="calibre7">Lockhart Saves Australia</em>. Unrelated. <em class="calibre7">Moody Stops
      Bicycle Theft, Takes No Prisoners.</em> Nothing to do with him,
      certainly. <em class="calibre7">Harry Potter Biography Hits Shelves</em>,
      <em class="calibre7">Shelves Hit Back</em>. Apparently Flourish and Botts had
      attracted a malicious poltergeist. <em class="calibre7">Nimbus Two Thousand Named
      Official Broom of Chudley Cannons</em>. Yawn.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, by the way," Milo said as he read. "I found out what
      You-Know-Who is after."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Ron spluttered. "How?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I cross-referenced everything on Harry's list with
      everything in the Hogwarts Library relating to extending one's
      life," he said. "And the Philospher's Stone is the only thing that
      appears in each. Nicolas Flamel was on the back of Dumbledore's
      chocolate frog card — which were invented in 1983 — back on the
      Hogwarts Express, which was, incidentally built in 1936, and he's
      the creator of the Stone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why does it matter that he was on the card?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, something as important as the motives of the main villain
      would have been mentioned at least once by now by way of
      foreshadowing," Milo said. "Hells, you've probably been in the same
      room as the thing at least once and didn't even know it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," said Hermione, sounding disappointed. "Here I'd hoped,
      against all reason, perhaps, that you'd finally found an ounce of
      sanity and logic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mark my words," Milo said. "He's after the Stone — or he's a
      vampire."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, if it's the stone he wants, we don't have anything to
      worry about," Hermione said. "Nicolas Flamel has it, and he's seven
      hundred years old. He's been able to keep it safe all this time, he
      must be pretty good at it. I mean, <em class="calibre7">surely</em> You-Know-Who
      isn't the first person to want to be immortal? I bet Flamel has to
      fight off dark wizards every other fortnight."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I'm glad that's settled," Harry said, cutting off Milo's
      reply. "Wait till you guys see what I got in the mail."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was so excited he could hardly speak as they hurried to
      the Gryffindor common room to open his package. He skipped up the
      stairs two at a time, and blurted out the password to the Fat Lady
      so quickly he had to repeat it twice before she was satisfied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a <em class="calibre7">Nimbus Two Thousand</em>!" Harry exclaimed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't be daft, mate," Ron said. "Anyone who owned a
      <em class="calibre7">Nimbus</em> wouldn't just <em class="calibre7">give</em> it away."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, a broomstick," said Hermione. "Hooray."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I had one of those, once," Milo said. "Stole it from a Death
      Eater I defeated. Dumbledore took it, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Course you did, mate," said Ron condescendingly. "Course you
      did."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, Harry," Milo said. "Tell me something: why were you so
      excited to get this broomstick?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a <em class="calibre7">Nimbus Two Thousand</em>!" Harry said, practically
      shouting. "They're top-line racing brooms!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right, right, but <em class="calibre7">how do you know that</em>?" Milo
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I saw one in the shop in Diagon Alley," he said. "There was a
      crowd around it and everything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ron, correct me if I'm wrong," Milo said to the redheaded boy,
      "but aren't there a number of top-line racing brooms out
      there?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, yeah, but the <em class="calibre7">Nimbus</em> is the <em class="calibre7">best</em> one,"
      said Ron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure, but still — there'd be ones that are used by, I dunno,
      national sports teams that still far outstrip those used by
      Hogwarts players, and are maybe <em class="calibre7">almost</em> as good as the
      <em class="calibre7">Nimbus</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, sure," Ron said thoughtfully. "There's the <em class="calibre7">Comet
      Four-Eighty</em> and it's hush-hush, but apparently Firebolt is
      working on something really fantastic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yet none of those," Milo said with satisfaction, "were on
      Harry's list of notable items."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The four fell silent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's a perfectly rational explanation," Hermione said.
      "McGonagall took Harry to Diagon Alley, remember? She must have
      seen it there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo laughed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of <em class="calibre7">course</em> there's a rational explanation, if you look
      closely enough. Still bears thinking about. Which is why we need to
      worry about this Philosopher's Stone. It just keeps popping
      up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When I was in Diagon Alley," Harry said excitedly. "Hagrid took
      us to a mysterious vault in Gringott's — and all that was in it was
      a tiny package! I bet it was the Stone!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, come on," Hermione said. "That's just ridiculous — if it
      were the Stone, Dumbledore would have gone himself, surely. He's
      the only one Voldemort was ever scared of."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But Gringott's was broken into that same day, but they didn't
      find what they were looking for!" Harry continued. "Remember, it
      was all over the news? They didn't find it — because Hagrid took it
      to Hogwarts!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or, maybe they just couldn't find it — or they were after
      something else — or Gringott's vault security, famed in the world,
      it employs <em class="calibre7">dragons</em> after all, was too good for them," said
      Hermione with growing frustration.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait, wait, wait — is Gringott's some sort of <em class="calibre7">bank</em>?"
      Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All three of them gave him the usual look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If the security is so good, why is it overrun with goblins?"
      Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The goblins <em class="calibre7">are</em> the security, duffer," Ron said. "They
      run the bank. It's their bank. A goblin bank."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo couldn't take it anymore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This world is <em class="calibre7">insane</em>!" he shouted. "<em class="calibre7">GOBLINS</em>
      running a <em class="calibre7">bank</em>? <em class="calibre7">Dragon</em>hide gloves? <em class="calibre7">TWELVE
      uses of dragon's blood?</em> What are they, raised in farms? Elves
      — cooking, as servants? <em class="calibre7">Wands</em>? There's only one person in
      the entire <em class="calibre7">country</em> who makes your wands and he's just
      allowed to wander about! What if he trips and dies, or some evil
      git — what the Hells is a <em class="calibre7">git</em>, anyways — comes by and
      knifes him? <em class="calibre7">What will you all do then</em>? Also,
      <em class="calibre7">broomsticks</em>? If you're all wizards, why don't you just
      cast <em class="calibre7">Fly</em>? By Bigby, <em class="calibre7">why</em> don't you just cast
      <em class="calibre7">Fly</em>? You have <em class="calibre7">infinite spells per day</em> and you let
      <em class="calibre7">goblins</em> guard your gold! With <em class="calibre7">dragons</em>! More
      dragons! You have <em class="calibre7">centaurs</em> living in your forest —
      Centaurs. The only <em class="calibre7">possible</em> reason having four legs with
      hooves would be an advantage is if you were in the open plains!
      It's like... it's like someone who had only vaguely heard of
      <em class="calibre7">real</em> magic got all the <em class="calibre7">words</em> right but their
      meanings completely wrong!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You about done, mate?" Ron asked. "'Cause our magic is just as
      real. You see us using it every day, it's just a bit different from
      what you're used to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, I'm done. So. Your resident Dark Wizard is trying to get
      the Philosopher's Stone. The Stone is in Hogwarts. Dumbledore is
      guarding the stone, apparently, but just <em class="calibre7">being</em> in Hogwarts
      isn't guarding — <em class="calibre7">guarding</em> is guarding. He'd have to be
      sitting next to the thing, all day, every day, for it to be really
      safe. Seeing as how the other professors, perhaps with the
      exception of McGonagall, are either completely useless, dead, or
      downright evil, that leaves us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Leaves us for what?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When Voldemort — oh, shut up, Ron, it's just a name — makes his
      move, we have to stop him," Harry said quietly. "He killed my
      parents. He killed a lot of people's parents. We need a plan,
      though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd just like everyone to realize you have nothing remotely
      concrete," Hermione said. "The world doesn't work that way.
      You-Know-Who is <em class="calibre7">dead</em>. Flamel has the Philosopher's Stone.
      <em class="calibre7">Professor</em> Snape is stern and sometimes maybe a little
      unfair, but he's not <em class="calibre7">evil</em>. Until you can prove even
      <em class="calibre7">one</em> of those statements is wrong, you can do this without
      me. Now, if you'll excuse me, I have Transfiguration homework — as
      do you, in point of fact." With that, she stood up and strode out
      of the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, she has a point," Ron said. "What we've got
      <em class="calibre7">is</em> a bit thin. Mind, Snape's evilness is pretty
      self-evident."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right, well, I think <em class="calibre7">someone</em> tried to kill me the
      other night," Milo said. "And even if I can't remember it
      happening, I'll find out how. Tomorrow, when I've got my spells
      back, I'm going back to the Forbidden Forest. Something's not
      right."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The forest with the giant spiders, the werewolves — and I
      <em class="calibre7">know</em> it's not a full moon — the human-hating centaurs,
      the... that's actually all that I can remember, but I'm sure it's
      just the beginning," Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unicorns," Harry said. "What's killing the unicorns? And
      why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh," Milo said. "I don't know, yet." Even <em class="calibre7">Scholar's
      Touch</em> had limitations — each one allowed him to read one book
      per level (so, four books, for those keeping score back home) but
      he could only cast so many per day. He resolved that from here on
      out, whenever he had extra spells remaining before going to bed, he
      was going to burn them on <em class="calibre7">Scholar's Touch</em> until he'd
      learned everything there was to know about this zany campaign
      setting. <em class="calibre7">Seriously</em>, he thought. <em class="calibre7">This place makes
      Eberron look as familiar as Faerun</em>. "But I can find out
      tomorrow — or maybe the day after."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right. Once you can prove it was Snape who tried to kill you —
      and come on, it totally was — then Hermione can help, and she
      probably already knows loads about unicorns and things we don't
      even know to look for," Harry said. "Meanwhile, Ron and I are going
      to try to find out everything we can about the Philosopher's Stone
      and Nicolas Flamel. He's a seven-hundred year-old wizard, right? I
      bet he's really famous. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Ron said. "He was like, the Dumbledore of his day. I
      heard he's the one who trained Dumbledore — he might well be the
      most powerful wizard alive, really, if he hadn't retired. That kind
      of takes you out of the running, retirement."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fortunately, the next day was Saturday, so Milo didn't have to
      worry about using his spells to bluff his way through classes.
      Instead, he prepared the same combat spells he did on the first
      trip into the forest, and set out. This time, there would be nobody
      to rescue him — so he went in the middle of the day, protected by
      his invisible <em class="calibre7">Mage Armour</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Locate Object</em>: acromantula's corpse," he cast,
      swapping out <em class="calibre7">Mirror Image</em>. As far as the magic was
      concerned, a dead creature was an object (unless it was undead, of
      course).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know," he muttered to himself as he followed the path set
      out by the spell. "I think I've realized why I'm having so much
      trouble here. I was really designed to neutralize a horde of
      enemies so that Zook and the others can take them out with pointy
      sticks and things," he said. "My spell selection was never designed
      to win fights solo." Now that he thought about it, Milo realized he
      didn't have anything actually, you know, <em class="calibre7">lethal</em>. Just sort
      of annoying. "The other thing about this crazy world," he
      complained. "There's no <em class="calibre7">Wizards</em>. I mean, there's these
      <em class="calibre7">people</em> here who <em class="calibre7">call</em> themselves wizards, but
      they're really more like Warlocks gone wrong. But no
      <em class="calibre7">proper</em> Wizards." No Wizards meant he couldn't copy spells
      for any amount of money, which is why his selection was still so
      limited. Every level, all Wizards learned a mere two new spells
      from independent research.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's all so unfair," he muttered. "I have to re-invent the
      wheel every time I want to learn a new spell. Ah, here we are."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He turned a somewhat familiar corner and felt the angle of
      <em class="calibre7">Locate Object</em> change suddenly, meaning he was close. It
      all looked so different during the day, but there was the
      web-covered tree. He couldn't believe he hadn't noticed it during
      the night, there really was a <em class="calibre7">lot</em> of web everywhere.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He cautiously approached the remains of the monstrous spider.
      Were Milo a normal human, he would be repulsed by the smell — but,
      Milo's nose, like those of everyone from his world, only picks up
      on plot-sensitive scents. The rest are just <em class="calibre7">assumed</em> to be
      there, but not explicitly mentioned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If Milo had thought that the acromantula would look less
      frightening during the light, he would have been wrong. It was
      <em class="calibre7">enormous</em>. His estimate of fifteen feet across was wrong —
      it was closer to twenty-five. Milo shuddered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A-ha!" he exclaimed. "That thing is <em class="calibre7">way</em> too large to
      have been killed by that little log I dropped," he said. The log
      weighed at most 400lbs, because that was as much as
      <em class="calibre7">Levitate</em> could carry, and only dropped twenty feet (the
      furthest he could raise it in the one round he had to do so)
      meaning it only did 2d6 damage. <em class="calibre7">That's twelve, max, and if
      acromantulas (acromantulae?) are anything like the monstrous
      spiders back home then it should have had twenty-four hit points,
      minimum, but probably closer to fifty-two.</em> "It should have
      shrugged that off and bitten me in half."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo frowned. There was more, too. Even <em class="calibre7">if</em> the spider
      was only CR 2, he should have had somewhere in the vicinity of 22
      hp – and Milo only did, <em class="calibre7">maximum</em>, 12 damage.
      <em class="calibre7">Actually</em>, he added mentally, <em class="calibre7">15 with</em> Acid Splash.
      <em class="calibre7">But the odds of that happening are slim – only one in 108.</em>
      He shouldn't have been able to even kill a CR 1 monstrous spider
      with all he did. And from what the people around here had been
      saying, acromantulas were dangerous. Really dangerous. From that
      alone, he would have thought that they were Challenge Rating four
      or more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He moved closer to the body to investigate. It was, clearly,
      quite dead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what happened to you, big guy? Were you already wounded?
      <em class="calibre7">Expose the Dead</em>," he cast, switching out
      <em class="calibre7">Levitate</em>. This was a spell the good people of Eberron had
      developed, but it had been carried to Milo's world by powerful
      spellcasters using <em class="calibre7">Planeshift</em>. He'd never actually seen it
      done before, and had no idea how to cast it, but Spontaneous
      Divination let him do it anyways. Best ability <em class="calibre7">ever</em>.
      Anyways — the spell gave him a gigantic bonus to searching crime
      scenes, <em class="calibre7">and</em> let him discover clues as if he were a trained
      professional. Some quick math told him that he'd have to be able to
      beat DC fifteen (easy, given his massive Intelligence and the bonus
      from the spell) to find a clue, if there was one, and then
      twenty-one to figure out any information from it. He frowned. It
      would take a twenty-six to find out everything he needed, and that
      was beyond him without more magical assistance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Master's Touch,</em> <em class="calibre7">Instant Search</em>," he cast,
      this time in favour of <em class="calibre7">Grease</em> and <em class="calibre7">Glitterdust</em>,
      respectively. He was starting to worry that he would run out of
      spells before he was done. The spells together gave him another +6
      to search.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Details of the spider's corpse, more than he really wanted to
      know in point of fact, suddenly appeared in his mind as if he'd
      diligently investigated the body.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Aside from a few long-since healed scars on its side and face, a
      sprained ankle (<em class="calibre7">do spiders have ankles?</em>), minor acid
      burning and 400lb of tree sitting on its back, the spider was in
      perfect health – except that it was missing one of its fangs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," Milo said triumphantly. "This explains everythi– wait a
      minute, no it doesn't. Can acromantulas shoot fangs? Why didn't I
      feel it? I <em class="calibre7">know</em> I didn't take any damage." Milo was aware,
      at any given time, how many hit points he had. "Well," he said.
      "You weren't a wounded high-CR monster, or I would have found the
      other injuries. You weren't CR 1, or I would have gotten less
      Experience Points. You weren't weak to acid, or there would be more
      serious burns. There is only one <em class="calibre7">possible</em> conclusion...
      and it changes <em class="calibre7">everything</em>," he said, pausing dramatically
      for the scene to change.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
