<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 8: Sidequests, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s5" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 8: Sidequests</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">The antidote, as it turned out, was harmless. That didn't stop
      Milo from buffing himself up with a <em class="calibre7">Resistance</em> spell and
      keeping his Antitoxin on hand before taking his dosage, however.
      Despite the fact that, aided by Snape's potion, Milo recovered from
      the after-effects of his poisoning fairly quickly, the rest of
      Autumn at Hogwarts was, well, unpleasant.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Ron made absolutely no progress in their hunt for
      information about the Philosopher's Stone among the teachers, and
      for such a powerful and famous artifact, Milo could barely find
      anything about it in the Hogwarts Library. He <em class="calibre7">Scholar's
      Touch</em>-ed his way through mountains of thick, dusty tomes
      without even opening their covers, and while he learned a lot of
      apparently useless information, there was little that seemed
      relevant to him. <em class="calibre7">Scholar's Touch</em> didn't grant any special
      powers to aid in memorization, so the fact that he 'read' the books
      so rapidly actually made it <em class="calibre7">harder</em> to keep his facts
      straight. Still, he reckoned he'd absorbed enough general setting
      information that he could start making Knowledge (History) checks
      about this world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was during this period that Milo noticed something unnatural
      about the people here. The more he watched them learn, the less he
      was sure that they were even human at all—they <em class="calibre7">looked</em>
      human, sure, but...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, to start, there was the food. The people here were
      <em class="calibre7">obsessed</em> with it, and kept comparing the various flavours
      of dishes that the house-elves cooked up for them (Milo was
      <em class="calibre7">dying</em> to meet one of the elves here, he was <em class="calibre7">sure</em>
      they could help him. Elves were annoying, sure, but the
      pointy-eared pansies and magic went hand in hand). Some even
      developed <em class="calibre7">favourite foods</em> and avoided certain ones
      altogether. To Milo, food was a logistical challenge to be overcome
      while adventuring and a source of danger if it ran low (thus, the
      Everlasting Rations, which were all that Milo ever ate). The actual
      <em class="calibre7">taste</em> of food was something that only came up in
      plot-relevant situations – like smell, and the weather. The people
      of Milo's world only smelled things when they were important, like
      a Troglodyte's stench or a potential clue (or red herring, for that
      matter). Otherwise, why bother even mentioning it?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another peculiarity in these people was the inordinate amount of
      down time they required. Milo had to spend eight hours sleeping and
      an hour memorizing spells, but that left fifteen hours a day to put
      to use attending class, fighting monsters, and crafting items
      off-screen. Milo knew an Artificer by the name of Alton who, when
      he finally got his hands on a Ring of Sustenance, spent two hours
      sleeping, eight hours crafting magic items (the maximum amount per
      day) and the other fourteen hours in a day mass-producing baskets
      to fund his adventuring. Alton did that every day for three hundred
      years straight, with breaks to fight monsters to recover lost
      Experience Points, until he'd amassed a fortune large enough to
      attract the attention of a wandering Blue Dragon. Alton's
      unfortunate demise aside, it was just good sense to put their hours
      to use—they were only given twenty-four in a day, after all. And
      besides, manual labour was the sort of thing done during a
      timeskip, anyways, it's not like it got in the way of the story.
      Even Hermione seemed shocked by the amount of time he spent reading
      and working. In just one week, Milo managed to custom-tailor his
      fifth-hand Hogwarts uniform (untrained, but with +2 for masterwork
      tools (which Milo also made himself) and +4 from his Intelligence)
      until it rivalled Draco's in quality, read more books than any of
      his classmates (save Hermione) could in a year, and carve holy
      symbols of Pelor, Heironeous, St. Cuthbert, and Boccob into key
      locations around Gryffindor Tower. <em class="calibre7">That</em> had earned him
      some strange looks, despite the fact that the residents there were
      <em class="calibre7">fully aware</em> that there were vampires on the same continent
      as them. That was all in addition to the daily chores all first
      year Gryffindors were required to do as punishment for trying to
      kill or maim the Slytherins back in September. Milo theorized that,
      while he had to spend an hour poring over his spellbook, performing
      arcane research, and memorizing spells every morning, the Wizards
      here had to spend at four to eight hours a day (judging by
      comparisons between Hermione and Ron, it was an amount of time
      equal to eight minus their Intelligence Bonus, in hours per day)
      sitting around on armchairs and talking about the weather.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But that wasn't the <em class="calibre7">really</em> weird thing. The more Milo
      watched these students in their classes, the harder a time he had
      sleeping at night. The way they were learning was <em class="calibre7">wrong</em>.
      It was oh, so, incredibly wrong. Ordinary people learned in
      discrete increments: they levelled up, their powers, skills, and
      abilities increased, and then they plateaued until attaining enough
      Experience Points to go up another level. It was just
      <em class="calibre7">obvious</em>. That was, intuitively, the way everyone—humans,
      elves, dwarves, kobolds, mindflayers, small fluffy hamsters,
      <em class="calibre7">everyone</em>—learned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Watching his fellow Gryffindors, Milo wondered, though it seemed
      impossible, if their skills didn't develop <em class="calibre7">gradually</em>.
      There seemed to be a slow, constant growth in magical ability,
      historical knowledge, broomstick skills, or whatever, that depended
      on that student's particular aptitude in that area. Hermione, for
      example, was the fastest to learn in Defence Against the Dark Arts,
      Charms, Transfiguration, Potions, Herbology, Astrology... actually,
      pretty much all of their classes except for Broomstick Flying
      (which went to Harry, who was also, to be fair, pretty close to
      even Hermione in Defence), and History of Magic (to Milo's intense
      embarrassment, it was the only class he seemed to be doing any good
      in, and even that was only as a result of his supersonic library
      binge).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That wasn't to say that Milo was completely <em class="calibre7">useless</em> in
      class, it was just... he had to wait and hope that whichever
      particular Charm (this world had a totally different definition of
      Charm than Milo's, which caused him no end of confusion) they were
      about to learn was fairly close to his limited repertoire of spells
      so he could fake his way through. If it wasn't... well, having to
      be helped by Neville Longbottom when attempting to learn the
      Cutting Charm was somewhat embarrassing. Transfiguration wasn't
      <em class="calibre7">too</em> bad. He managed to get by, to a certain extent, with
      using <em class="calibre7">Prestidigitation</em> to change the colour and, on one
      memorable occasion, taste of the object he was attempting to
      transfigure. He started out ahead, but now he was barely scraping a
      A (which stood for Acceptable, and was counter-intuitively, the
      lowest passing grade) but if he didn't get some new spells soon,
      he'd slip into P (for Poor) territory with alacrity. Charms was
      going distressingly poorly until Flitwick announced they'd be
      learning how to levitate objects. Milo simply cast
      <em class="calibre7">Levitate</em> quietly then said "<em class="calibre7">Wingardium Leviosa</em>"
      with the rest of them, and astonished the class and earned him five
      House Points by lifting an entire table, complete with Neville (who
      had been leaning against it and grabbed one of the legs in a panic
      as it started to float away) and lowering it back down again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Defence Against the Dark Arts was kind of pointless. Quirrell,
      for all the mystery surrounding him, didn't seem to care whatsoever
      about teaching. What they <em class="calibre7">did</em> learn was mostly limited to
      dealing with magical household pests. Milo was forced to wonder
      what the Muggles did when confronted with a Bowtruckle in their
      trees, or if the magical creatures had an inbuilt sense of decency
      and fair play, and as a result only targeted humans carrying wands.
      Milo caused quite a stir when he suggested the best way to deal
      with vampires was to impair them with <em class="calibre7">Webs</em>,
      <em class="calibre7">Glitterdust</em>, and <em class="calibre7">Grease</em> so that your
      non-spellcaster allies can take them out with wooden stakes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You would bring <em class="calibre7">Muggles</em> with you?" Quirrell had asked,
      sounding genuinely shocked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, sure. You don't see many a Wizard pumping irons or
      practicing hand-to-hand combat, now do you? Deck 'em out in full
      plate, give 'em a pointy stick, and point 'em in the right
      direction." It was incredible. They seemed to never have heard of
      the concept of a meat shield, and even the Slytherins were shocked
      and appalled when he attempted to educate them. That there was
      something morally questionable about sending the heavily armoured,
      greataxe-wielding barbarian with mighty thews out front to soak up
      damage had never occurred to Milo. It seemed to him that the
      wizards here were remarkably selfish, never giving a thought to how
      their nonmagical allies would feel when the spellcasters hogged all
      the glory and XP with their vastly superior powers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Broomstick lessons, however, were dreadful. Milo had come to the
      conclusion that the broomsticks weren't actually magical <em class="calibre7">at
      all</em>, but that the local wizards had a spell or class feature
      that let them animate certain broomsticks (probably with a specific
      cost requirement, which is why they didn't use ordinary cleaning
      mops) for flight. Milo, not having said spell or perk, was
      completely unsuccessful at making the thrice-damned stick float,
      and finally gave up and <em class="calibre7">Levitated</em> the accursed thing. This
      let him go up and down, but to move horizontally he had to
      awkwardly kick off of walls and objects. He felt like a
      six-year-old who'd accidentally been signed up for swimming lessons
      for eight-year-olds, and was desperately trying to dog paddle
      around the room while everyone else was demonstrating
      backstrokes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The worst, the absolute <em class="calibre7">worst</em>, was Potions. Snape
      seemed to go out of his way to make Harry's life as miserable as
      possible, which was annoying, but the concerning thing was how he
      always kept a <em class="calibre7">very</em> close eye on Milo. The thing was, the
      potions <em class="calibre7">didn't work</em>. He chopped up the ingredients exactly
      how the book suggested and made sure to turn the spoon clockwise
      three times and counterclockwise one-and-a-half times, or whatever,
      but <em class="calibre7">nothing happened</em>. Even <em class="calibre7">Neville's</em> potions
      occasionally exploded, or melted, or screamed, or caught fire, or
      in one case got up and ran out of the room blabbering about the
      Kennedy Assassination. But Milo's potions, though Milo would bet
      his spellbook he was doing everything right, were just water with
      stuff floating in them. Whenever one of Harry's potions failed
      catastrophically, Snape would deduct house points and scold him,
      but whenever he noticed that Milo's was use-impaired (Milo was
      hesitant to call them <em class="calibre7">useless</em>, because they could still
      be, and frequently were, employed to put out fires) Snape just
      smiled to himself and made a note in the compact, leather-bound
      notebook he carried about his person.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was that evening that Milo learned about Hallowe'en.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, what are you going as?" Hannah Abbot asked him. She seemed
      to enjoy sitting next to him at meals for some inexplicable reason.
      Milo only bothered to go to the Great Hall for dinner (as opposed
      to munching on Everlasting Rations in his dorm) because he'd
      noticed a correlation between mealtimes there and having important
      conversations.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo blinked in surprise. Being knocked out of a timeskip was
      rather like spending the whole day reading a good book, then
      remembering you had a party to go to, but the book was <em class="calibre7">so
      good</em> that you read it the whole way on the bus and were
      completely distracted and absent-minded all evening, until you hear
      someone say your name from the other side of the room, and
      <em class="calibre7">snap</em>. Broken out of your reverie, just like that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry, say that again?" Milo asked. "I was distracted."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was just asking what you were going to dress up for on
      Hallowe'en," Hannah asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, that still doesn't make any sense. What's Hallowe'en?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah blinked, shook her head slightly, and blinked again. She
      looked like someone had just asked her what a Natural 20 was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't even <em class="calibre7">know</em>? <em class="calibre7">Everyone</em> knows what
      Hallowe'en is!" she exclaimed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, I've been over this. I wasn't raised by wizards,
      <em class="calibre7">etcetera</em> <em class="calibre7">etcetera</em>, fill me in?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, but even <em class="calibre7">Muggles</em> know about Hallowe'en!" Hannah
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not from around here, remember?" Milo reminded her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I guess, it's a holiday where everyone dresses up as
      monsters and goes around taking candy from strangers," Hannah said.
      "Which always confused me a little, because that's exactly what me
      mum is always reminding me <em class="calibre7">not</em> to do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see," Milo said. "that seems... terribly mundane, actually.
      Surely I didn't get pulled out of compressed time for
      <em class="calibre7">that</em>?" Milo frowned. "Harry," Milo said, turning to his
      left, "is Hallowe'en written on your list, anywhere?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, lemme check," Harry said, and flipped through his lengthy
      list of notes. "Nope, not at all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Try All Hallows' Eve," Hermione suggested, "and Samhain."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, I thought you weren't helping?" Ron pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not," she said defensively. "I'm just... advising. Oh, and
      Harry, try just looking for October Thirty-First."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Advising <em class="calibre7">is</em> helping. And of <em class="calibre7">course</em> Hallowe'en
      is significant for Harry," Ron said. "<em class="calibre7">Everyone</em> knows—oh,
      right, sorry. I forgot. Anyway, it's the day that Harry defeated
      You-Know-Who ten years ago."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean, the day when my parents..." Harry sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uhm. Right. Sorry," Ron said apologetically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Still don't see what's important about <em class="calibre7">that</em>," Milo
      said. Hermione shot him a look that could curdle milk, nodding
      slightly towards Harry. "I mean, aside from, you know, being
      tragic. Just tragic. Uh. Terrible, that is. Tragic and
      terrible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't worry about it," Harry said quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, phew." Milo said, relieved, before moving on to what he saw
      as more pressing issues. "Anyways. Tenth anniversary of
      You-Know-Who's alleged demise? Dumbledore doesn't look very
      concerned," Milo said, nodding to the eccentric Headmaster at the
      Head Table, "meaning there was nothing about it in the
      Prophecy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait, what Prophecy?" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's <em class="calibre7">always</em> a Prophecy, Hermione," Milo rolled his
      eyes. "<em class="calibre7">Everyone</em> knows that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Point for his side," Ron muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I hadn't realized we were keeping score," Hermione said
      sharply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're Quidditch players," Ron said nodding to Harry, "we
      <em class="calibre7">always</em> keep score."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, when's this Hallowe'en thing?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"October Thirty-First," Hannah supplied. "Tomorrow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione," Milo said. "If I'm right, and something dramatic
      does happen tomorrow evening, will you admit that I'm right, that
      Snape is evil, that the Philosopher's Stone is involved—that it's
      maybe even at Hogwarts, in or about the clearly relevant third
      floor corridor—that You-Know-Who isn't really dead, and that...
      wait, was there something else? No, I think that's about it.
      Anyway, will you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope," Hermione said simply. "Because there is absolutely no
      correlation between any of those events. Say, tomorrow, the Chamber
      of Secrets is opened and Muggleborns start dying. There's <em class="calibre7">no
      connection</em> between that and You-Know-Who being alive.
      <em class="calibre7">If</em> You-Know-Who is alive, that's absolutely <em class="calibre7">no
      reason</em> to think that Snape is, quote, <em class="calibre7">evil</em>. If Snape
      <em class="calibre7">is</em> evil, that's no reason to think the Philosopher's Stone
      is in Hogwarts. Unless Snape releases Slytherin's Monster to use as
      a distraction so he can get the Stone to bring You-Know-Who back to
      life. That would make perfect sense, actually. Can the Philospher's
      Stone do that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The great Hermione Granger, asking a question?" Milo laughed.
      "Well, mine can. That is, Philosopher's Stones' from my universe
      can bring back the dead –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Harry asked quietly. "Really?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure," said Milo. "Of course, any old Cleric can do the same
      for a few gold pieces and some diamond powder, so I don't really
      see what the big deal is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry choked on his food.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wh-wh-what?" he asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Raise Dead, Resurrection, True Resurrection, Reincarnate,
      Revivify, Miracle</em>, and <em class="calibre7">Wish</em>," Milo said, ticking off
      his fingers as he listed the spells, "are all spells that can bring
      back the dead, to name a few."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Y-you can bring the dead back to life?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Me? Ha! Boccob, No. It's really more Divine spellcaster
      territory. I <em class="calibre7">think</em>, but I'd have to do a little research
      to be sure, that Wizards have to use <em class="calibre7">Wish</em> to do it, and
      it's really powerful magic. Demands a huge sacrifice of Experience,
      and in any case it's <em class="calibre7">way</em> beyond my abilities."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," said Harry, looking crestfallen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Milo," Hermione said acidly, "You and I will have words about
      this later. You're going to have to learn some tact one of these
      days, even if I have to shove it down your throat at
      wandpoint."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Point for her side," Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, shuttup. So the Philospher's Stone can bring back the
      dead?" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What? Oh, haha, no. Yours can't, anyways. From what I found in
      the library, it just turns stuff into gold and lets you live
      forever."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that's a—ah. Nevermind," Hermione said, glancing at
      Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's a <em class="calibre7">what</em>, Hermione?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, it means You-Know-Who can't come back, so it's kind of
      a..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A relief, isn't it? That the Stone can't bring back the dead?"
      Harry pushed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, if you must know, that's what I was going to say. But that
      was before I thought about it, and stopped myself, because I didn't
      initially think it through the whole way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fair enough," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think I missed something there," Ron admitted quietly to
      Milo.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione was about to say it was a relief that the
      Philosopher's Stone can't bring back the dead, but right now
      Harry's thinking about his parents," Milo explained in a whisper,
      "so she was as good as saying it'd be worth it that we couldn't
      bring back Harry's folks, as well as anyone else decent who'd died,
      just to keep You-Know-Who down."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's try to stay on topic, okay?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right. Sorry," Hermione apologised.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Forget it. What should we do about tomorrow?" Harry
      wondered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tell a professor," Hermione shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can't very well go up to McGonagall and say, <em class="calibre7">'excuse me,
      Professor, tomorrow's Hallowe'en and Milo's Spidey Sense is
      tingling so can you lock down the school, just to be sure?'</em>
      she'd think we were nuts, for sure," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's a Spidey Sense?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry suppressed a grin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Blimey!</em> You don't even know what the
      <em class="calibre7">Spider-Sense</em> is? Everyone knows <em class="calibre7">that!</em> It's
      Spider-Man's ability to sense danger before it happens," Harry
      said. "How on Earth did you become eleven years old and
      <em class="calibre7">not</em> know that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Point for his side," Hermione smirked. "But Harry makes a good
      point. The reason it sounds crazy is because it still <em class="calibre7">is</em>
      crazy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're too hung up on actual, you know, <em class="calibre7">facts</em>,
      Hermione," Milo said. "Just be on your toes tomorrow, okay? That
      goes for everyone," Milo added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In all seriousness, what could I possibly do, even on my toes?"
      Hermione asked. "Use the Levitating Charm to save the day?
      Transfigure up some sewing needles? I've only been a Witch for two
      months. I'll stay inside the castle tomorrow, not that I have much
      choice, because <em class="calibre7">someone</em> got us all a full year of
      detention. Aside from that, I don't know about you, but I'm going
      to enjoy Hallowe'en in family tradition, passed down the Granger
      line for generations: by revising and doing homework. Exams are
      only eight months away, after all." She sighed, a slightly dreamy
      expression coming over her, "I do so love Hallowe'en. Which brings
      me to the matter at hand: Harry, Ron, and I have to go now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" asked Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" asked Ron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I said that already," said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, but, I was confused, too, right?" said Ron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I just don't think it added much, is all. It was, what's it
      called... redundant."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think it's considered polite to say <em class="calibre7">learning
      disabled</em> now, <em class="calibre7">actually</em>," said Ron primly, "and I
      don't care for your tone at all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione coughed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right. Why were we leaving, Hermione?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For a very important <em class="calibre7">thing</em> that we have to do <em class="calibre7">far
      over there</em>," she said, pointing frantically to the far corner
      of the Great Hall. "You know? The <em class="calibre7">thing</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, nope, Hermione, sorry," Ron said. "I think you've lost a
      marble or ten. I have no idea what you're talking about."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, just <em class="calibre7">get up and walk</em>, Weasley, Potter, or I swear
      I'll... I'll... I'll <em class="calibre7">think of something</em>," she threatened.
      "and <em class="calibre7">mark my words</em>: I am <em class="calibre7">very good</em> at thinking of
      things. Very, <em class="calibre7">very</em> good. Bwa, ha, ha."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you just say <em class="calibre7">Bwa ha ha</em>?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pardon," Hermione said. "I appear to have caught the
      hiccups."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Only that didn't sound like a hiccup," Ron said. "It was more
      of a, you know, evil laugh, sort of thing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope, it was a hiccup. What would an eleven year old girl be
      doing laughing evilly? I hiccupped. I even covered my mouth and
      everything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Only... only, aren't you twelve?" asked Ron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ron, mate," Harry whispered. "I think we should just go with
      her. It's less painful that way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Fine</em>," Ron muttered, and they stood up and walked
      away. Hermione kept glancing surreptitiously back at Milo and
      Hannah.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," Milo said, taking a bite out of his Everlasting Rations.
      "That was... weird."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, kinda," Hannah agreed evasively. "Anyway, about
      Hallowe'en tomorrow...?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He thinks he's so clever," Malfoy sneered. "He has <em class="calibre7">no
      idea</em> what's coming to him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah!" said Crabbe (or Goyle).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right!" said Goyle (or Crabbe, but you get the idea,
      right?)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"After the last one, he acted like he didn't care, but you could
      tell. Oh, man, <em class="calibre7">you could tell</em>, if you looked close. Real
      close," Malfoy said. "I got him, like, right to the core. Just wish
      I saw him read the paper."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, we got him deep down," said Crabbe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, we got him so deep you'd need a Bubble-Head Charm to swim
      down there to see," said Goyle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, so deep you'd die from the pressure," said Crabbe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, guys. Seriously, stop that," said Malfoy. "You aren't
      helping."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, you're not helping, Goyle," said Goyle. Wait, Crabbe.
      Said Crabbe. Phew, close call.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, you're just making things worse, Crabbe," said Goyle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco rolled his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This time," Draco said, "this time, it'll get him so bad he
      won't even be able to hide it. He'll be <em class="calibre7">begging</em> for mercy.
      And you know what I'll do then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Relent, as he's seen the error of his ways, and demonstrate
      your kind, forgiving personality?" suggested Goyle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Relent, and buy him a puppy," said Crabbe. "A fluffy one. So he
      doesn't feel so bad about losing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco gave them a peculiar look. Seriously, what was
      <em class="calibre7">with</em> these two?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nah, I'll kick 'im!" he cackled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah!" said Crabbe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah!" added Goyle, not wanting to feel left out. Goyle
      frowned, which made his forehead looked a little like Mount Etna
      would if it collapsed – slowly – and said, "So, boss, what's the
      plan?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The plan? <em class="calibre7">You want to know the plan</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, boss, so's we can help," said Crabbe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, boss, so's we can... know the plan," said Goyle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll tell you the plan! It'll all go down tomorrow," Draco
      said. "Do you know what day it is tomorrow?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh," said Crabbe. "Thursday?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No!" shrieked Malfoy. "Well, actually, yes. Tomorrow is
      Thursday. But that's not what's important!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh," said Goyle. "Friday?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No!" shrieked Malfoy. "Wait... what? Look, Goyle, I <em class="calibre7">just
      said</em> that tomorrow is Thursday. Surely even you... I mean,
      <em class="calibre7">really?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, you also said it wasn't what was important, so I thought,
      maybe the <em class="calibre7">important</em> thing about tomorrow is that, while
      it's Thursday, it's really Friday. You know?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh," said Malfoy. "No... not... really..." he frowned. "Look,
      guys, we're getting off topic. It's not about the day of the week,
      okay?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh! Oh! I love this game," said Goyle. "Is it smaller than a
      breadbox?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh. Well, kinda, I guess, in an abstract sort of sense,
      tomorrow is <em class="calibre7">bigger</em> than a breadbox... wait, no! We're not
      playing Twenty Questions! Just... just... just guess, okay? It's
      like, really obvious. Here's a hint, even. Today's the Thirtieth of
      October, so tomorrow is..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Friday!" said Crabbe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're fired. You're both fired."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Thirty-First!" said Goyle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Yes!</em>" Malfoy resisted, barely, the temptation to
      fist-pump. "And what happens every year on October
      Thirty-First?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hallowe'en!" said Crabbe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">NO!</em> Well, actually, yeah, again, kinda. But once
      again, you're right but completely wrong! Tomorrow morning is the
      Northwestern Regional Semi-Finals for the UK Quidditch League!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bwa ha ha!" Crabbe cackled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mwa ha ha!" Goyle cackled, too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm confused," Ron admitted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, there's a surprise. Look," Milo explained, "a sidequest
      is a short adventure at most tangentially related to the major
      events of the story used primarily for character development."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Character development?" asked Ron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah. Getting hauls of XP, magic items, and gold, and thus
      making your character more powerful, or <em class="calibre7">developed</em>.
      Character development."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned. "Look, unlike you two, I actually went to primary
      school, and I'm fairly certain that's not actually what character
      development means."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Irregardless," Milo began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not a word," Harry muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Says the boy on the <em class="calibre7">Quidditch</em> team. <em class="calibre7">Anyways</em>,
      regardless — there, happy? — of the meaning of character
      development, sidequests are brief excursions, more focussed on a
      single idea, generally simpler, and also where most of the best
      loot comes from."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And that's why you're going on a date with the cute blonde?"
      asked Fred (or George, but we're not starting <em class="calibre7">this</em> again,
      okay?).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not a date. A <em class="calibre7">sidequest</em>," corrected Milo. He, Ron,
      Harry, and the Weasley twins were sitting in a corner in the Common
      Room. Milo had planned to co-ordinate his Hallowe'en schedule with
      them, so that they'd all know where the others would be at any
      given time (for when, inevitably, disaster struck) but the
      conversation had taken an unexpected turn when he'd filled them in
      on his conversation with Hannah.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"On a secluded, dare I say, <em class="calibre7">private</em> walk around the
      Hogwarts lake," said George, "where, being right out in the open,
      of course, everyone can see you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah. An adventure past a body of water filled to the brim with
      monsters of every sort," said Milo.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, <em class="calibre7">I</em> see," Fred said knowingly. "So you can protect
      the fair maiden, eh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, if I have to. She's a witch, though, should be more than
      competent at defending herself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think, Fred," said George, "that he's not really getting into
      the spirit of things."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm forced to agree, George," said Fred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She said she wanted to talk to me alone for a while," Milo
      shrugged. "So I just assumed she had some critical information she
      has to pass along, or possibly a magic item. For all I know, she'll
      give me a quest."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe she has some <em class="calibre7">sensitive information</em>, if you know
      what I... ah, nevermind, you know?" said Fred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, it's just not working. He seems to be immune to teasing,"
      admitted George. "Such a shame."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A missed opportunity."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A wasted chance."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A moment passed, never to return."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Such a shame."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, we actually said that one, already," said Fred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, nuts," said George. "And here I was, getting all Zen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, one way or another," Fred said, "I think you're going to
      have a very interesting Hallowe'en."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell paced back and forth irritably in his office. He just
      had to <em class="calibre7">think</em>. There must be some way to get rid of that
      boy... how did he know? How could he <em class="calibre7">possibly</em> know that
      the Dark Lord was returning? <em class="calibre7">Dumbledore must have told
      him,</em> Quirrell thought. <em class="calibre7">No... that explains nothing. How
      could Dumbledore himself know?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">And the boy had just <em class="calibre7">told him</em>. He'd just come out and
      said it was <em class="calibre7">obvious</em>. Obvious! To anyone with half a brain!
      He'd even named his three friends as accomplices... Was it a trap?
      A test of some sort? Perhaps the boy had been bluffing, trying to
      gauge Quirrell's reaction?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Irregardless, it didn't matter. The boy had to die. Snape would
      make things difficult, though... he seemed to know, somehow.
      <em class="calibre7">The only times the accursed Potions Master isn't watching the
      boy,</em> Quirrell thought, <em class="calibre7">he's watching me</em>. <em class="calibre7">He must
      be trying to protect the boy... they're all in it together. That's
      what they were doing out in the forest... Snape went out to meet
      Milo in the Forbidden Forest, to discuss how to stop me. It's too
      much of a coincidence to be anything else. They must think they're
      so clever, but if they were</em> really <em class="calibre7">clever they wouldn't
      have let me notice. No, they weren't half as sneaky as they
      thought. Well, it'll all happen tomorrow, if everything goes
      according to plan... No. No, there's no</em> if <em class="calibre7">about
      it.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">A Power He Knows Not...</em>" Quirrell heard the horrible,
      hissing voice say behind him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"W-w-what was that, Master?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Nothing that need concern you</em>," the voice lashed out
      at him, like a cobra. Then the pain started.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It would be a long night for Quirrell.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
