<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 10: Odds of Survival, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s7" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 10: Odds of Survival</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Author's Notes: Hallowe'en was originally going to be a
      three-part chapter, but it's stretched out to four parts now (I had
      way too much fun with this). Thanks to all of my readers! My inbox
      is flooded with hundreds of fanfiction subscription and favourite
      alerts, which make me very, very happy indeed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And remember: if you like it, review it! I try to read them
      all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, if it wasn't Draco who poisoned Neville," Harry asked Milo
      as they sat down at their Defence Against the Dark Arts desks, "who
      was it?" Harry had been trying to get Milo to speak throughout
      their whole History of Magic class, but Hermione kept shushing him
      (talking in History carried across the whole room, not that the
      ghost of Binns noticed or apparently cared).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know, yet," Milo confessed. "But there's one thing I
      <em class="calibre7">do</em> know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's that?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was someone on your list," Milo said. "Adding a whole new
      character <em class="calibre7">now</em> who poisoned Neville would ruin any element
      of mystery. It has to be someone we met in the first two
      adventures."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just once, you're going to use logic based on actual facts,"
      said Hermione primly, "and all the trees on Earth will wither and
      die."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The class filed in gradually in groups of two or three.
      Quirrell's course was basically a joke, so punctuality wasn't
      exactly a top priority for most students—Quirrell hardly ever
      deducted House Points for tardiness. The Gryffindors were
      <em class="calibre7">marginally</em> more excited today than usual, because rumour
      had it that Quirrell had been preparing something special for
      today, it being Hallowe'en and all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I-I-I-I've been p-p-p-preparing s-something sp-sp-special for
      t-today," Quirrell announced when the last of the students arrived,
      "it being H-Hallowe'en and all—or, as s-s-some n-now call it,
      <em class="calibre7">Harry P-P-Potter Day</em>." There was, Milo thought he noticed,
      a hint of a sneer in Quirrell's voice. Milo had to agree with
      Quirrell: Harry Potter Day was a pretty silly name, especially
      compared to something as cool as 'All Hallow's Eve.' Quirrell was
      standing in front of something massive and mostly rectangular,
      covered by a sheet of canvas.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry muttered something under his breath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry, what was that?" Hermione whispered quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Should be Lily and James Potter Day," Harry answered simply. "I
      don't even remember it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"B-b-but before we b-begin," Quirrell said, "I'd l-like to ask
      y-y-young M-M-Milo something," Milo perked up as he heard his name.
      "I'd heard th-that you've b-b-been losing a g-great deal of the
      n-n-noble House G-Gryiffindor's P-P-Points lately," he said across
      the classroom. There were a few chuckles, and a number of angry
      looks. "I-I-I was w-w-wondering if y-y-you m-m-might like an
      opportunity to earn s-s-some b-back?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Whatever could have possessed a person with a crippling stutter
      to get a job which required lecturing large groups of people on a
      daily basis escaped Milo. Milo shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure," he said. "Anything for the House, after all. Have to win
      the House Medal and all that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cup," Ron whispered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cup Medal, that is." Milo corrected himself, wondering what
      Quirrell was getting at.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excellent," Quirrell said. "C-c-come see m-me after c-c-class,
      then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo nervously ran his fingers through his hair. Was there
      <em class="calibre7">anyone</em> who wasn't going to want to see him this evening?
      This was something of an opportunity, though—Milo could just go to
      whatever Quirrell's thing was, then let <em class="calibre7">him</em> deal with the
      fallout from Snape. <em class="calibre7">If anyone can stand up to Snape,</em> Milo
      thought, <em class="calibre7">it's Quirrell</em>. <em class="calibre7">I like the cut of his
      jib.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell's 'something special' for Hallowe'en turned out to be
      rather awesome, in the sense that it was something that evoked
      awe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A-and w-w-without further ado," Quirrell stammered excitedly to
      the class, "allow m-m-me to p-p-present my H-H-Hallowe'en
      surprise!" With a dramatic flourish, he pulled off the tarp,
      revealing, as it turned out, a cage of monstrous proportions. The
      bars were made of thick steel wrapped in unpleasant-looking razor
      wire. Hanging from the cage was an almost cartoonishly-oversized
      lock, though Milo was certain that there were likely layers of
      Abjurations protecting the cage not visible to the naked eye. The
      cage emanated an entirely non-magical aura of immobility and
      intimidation. <em class="calibre7">Nothing</em> short of the Tarrasque itself was
      getting out of that cage. It wasn't the cage, however, that caused
      the collective gasp of fear from the Gryffindors—the house noted
      for its bravery—but what lay inside.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Blimey</em>," said Ron quietly. "It's a Troll."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A Giant," Milo corrected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Ron whispered. "A Giant Troll."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo sighed. The brute inside was very clearly a Giant. Trolls,
      unlike Giants, were green and sort of... weirdly proportioned, with
      long dangly limbs and spiky black hair. <em class="calibre7">This</em> was obviously
      some non-core species of Giant—simple enough to prove with a
      dagger, as only Trolls could regenerate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Th-th-this is a T-T-Troll," Quirrell stammered to the class,
      "The G-Groundskeeper and I c-caught it in the F-F-Forb-Forb... in
      the Forest. It appears to have b-b-been h-harassing the
      unicorns."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excuse me, Professor," asked a Gryffindor NPC (probably Seamus)
      "I thought that was werewolves?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"W-werewolves aren't f-f-fast enough," said Quirrell. <em class="calibre7">And
      they're only active on full moons</em>, Milo thought irritably.
      <em class="calibre7">I mean,</em> seriously. <em class="calibre7">What's the</em> one <em class="calibre7">defining
      characteristic of a werewolf?</em> It turns into a wolf on the full
      moon.Only <em class="calibre7">the full moon</em>. <em class="calibre7">Sheesh.</em> "And T-T-Trolls,
      b-believe me, are f-faster than they l-l-look. N-now, there's
      n-n-no need to w-worry about the T-T-Troll getting out," he
      continued, "as this c-cage is very n-nearly indestructible. The
      w-w-wire you see is, in addition to b-b-being very sh-sharp,
      b-bewitched to entangle a-anyone trying to g-g-get out. A-a-anyone
      who t-t-touches the lock w-without the k-key—kept in the
      H-H-Headmaster's Office—will be struck by a F-F-Full Body B-B-Bind
      and trigger an a-alarm. The b-b-bars themselves are Goblin-made,
      and c-can withstand anything short of D-D-Dragonfire. There are a
      f-f-few other s-s-surprises as w-w-well. Q-quite f-f-fortunate we
      h-had it on h-h-hand, in f-f-fact. N-n-now, who c-c-can tell me
      w-w-what Trolls eat?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell continued into a detailed lecture (in fact,
      significantly more detailed than his usual lectures, which were
      generally considered 80-minute long naptimes. Everyone's had at
      least one teacher like him) about Trolls. He seemed quite
      enthusiastic on the subject, not unlike a Fighter asked about
      pointy sticks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the class came to a close and three o'clock approached,
      Quirrell dismissed the rest of the students a little early to enjoy
      their Hallowe'en evenings.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"M-M-Milo?" Quirrell asked. <em class="calibre7">Right, he wanted me to stay
      after. Almost forgot about that.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So," Milo said as he walked towards the alleged Troll. "What
      can I do you for?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Th-this fellow," Quirrell said, pointing to the monstrous
      humanoid in the cage. "W-we have to m-m-move him t-to the
      d-d-dungeons until the M-M-Ministry can d-deal with him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo sized up the brute.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah," he said. "Look, I know they say I'm good at Levitating
      things, but <em class="calibre7">this</em>..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, d-d-don't worry," said Quirrel. "The c-cage is S-Self
      Levitating. H-however, it's e-easiest to p-p-push it from the
      b-b-back," he said, pointing to a small area on the cage not
      covered in razor-sharp wire, "but then I c-can't see where I'm
      g-g-going. So, if you could p-p-push it, I can l-l-lead? H-H-Hagrid
      helped me b-bring it here, b-but he's b-b-busy now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sounds like a design flaw to me," Milo said. "But sure, I can
      lend a hand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell smiled. There was no warmth whatsoever in his
      expression. Milo gave the cage a light push, and it drifted in
      front of him with surprisingly little effort. He was reminded of
      his brief adventure with Neville that morning, pushing the cage
      after Quirrell. The Giant inside seemed more perplexed than
      frightening as Milo guided the cage down the ever-shifting hallways
      of Hogwarts, only half paying attention to his surroundings.
      Quirrell was right—it really <em class="calibre7">was</em> impossible to see from
      behind this brute. Every so often, Quirrell called out a direction
      to him. Milo wondered briefly why Hogwarts had such a cage—it
      looked reasonably new, and could likely hold something quite a bit
      <em class="calibre7">bigger</em> than its current occupant—before remembering who
      the residents of the Forbidden Forest were.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So," Milo asked, more to make conversation than anything, "this
      is who we were looking for in the forest?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"L-l-looks like," Quirrell said from the other side of the cage.
      "H-H-Hagrid caught him covered in u-u-unicorn blood. W-w-we'll know
      f-f-for sure if the u-u-unicorns stop d-d-disappearing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go figure," Milo said. "I sort of thought it would have been
      one of the Death Eaters, or Snape."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"W-w-why?" asked Quirrell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Isn't it obvious? Well, we know You-Know-Who is returning,
      right? But he's supposed to have died, and you guys don't have
      Clerics or <em class="calibre7">Wish</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Clerics? Wish?" Quirrell asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where I come from, death is pretty cheap. <em class="calibre7">Well</em>, not
      cheap, exactly, but with enough diamonds and the right spellcaster,
      pretty much anyone can be brought back from the dead in some form.
      Clerics are the best at it by far, but a Wizard like me can pull it
      off, too, with some difficulty." Milo explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">You can do this?</em> You can bring back the dead?"
      Quirrell asked sharply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not yet, but maybe in a few years at this rate. Unlike back
      home, there's only a few methods available to you people for
      cheating death that I could find in the Hogwarts
      Library—<em class="calibre7">Scholar's Touch</em> is <em class="calibre7">so</em> broken!—and those
      methods were as follows: Flamel's Stone, Unicorn's Blood, and
      becoming a vampire."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go on," Quirrell urged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In order of preference, the order is probably the Stone first,
      then the blood, and lastly becoming a vampire. There wasn't much I
      could find on any of these subjects—they're probably in the
      forbidden areas in the library, or books written by authors whose
      names start with letters after F—but from what I can tell, there's
      no mention of a cure for Vampirism, so it'd be a last resort. All I
      could find about the unicorns was that whoever drank their blood
      would be cursed to living a 'half-life,' which is cryptic as a
      crypt tick but sounds at least halfway better than total
      unlife."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, why not simply assume he's after the Stone?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, he is, of course. Dumbledore's supposedly guarding it, but
      there's about a million and a half problems with <em class="calibre7">that —</em>he
      runs a school, and he's chief whatever of the thingamajig, and
      Supreme Muggle of the other thing. He can't be on guard twenty-four
      hours a day like an orc in a ten-by-ten room guarding a treasure
      chest. So in practice, the staff of Hogwarts are defending it, and
      while Dumbledore is this legendary wizard, you aren't. I mean, you
      and McGonagall clearly know what you're doing, and while you're a
      match for his minions, if you could take You-Know-Who, you would
      have last time. But here's the thing: You-Know-Who is weak right
      now, or he'd already be Dark Lord of the world already."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That he would."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" What's more, he's <em class="calibre7">politically</em> crippled—Hells, even
      the <em class="calibre7">Malfoys</em> have publically renounced him. He can't storm
      the castle personally, and he doesn't have enough minions to do it
      for him outright. He probably only has a handful of loyal Death
      Eaters left, and <em class="calibre7">they're</em> all vying for who's going to be
      top guy when You-Know-Who returns. He might not even know about
      their <em class="calibre7">existence</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not all of his servants are Death Eaters, boy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really? I thought that was just the catch-all term for it
      here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Interesting. What does this have to do with unicorns?" Quirrell
      asked. His voice sounded somewhat hoarse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">You</em> would know more than anyone else, Professor," Milo
      said. There was a brief silence, and Milo heard a rustling of
      robes. "Vampires, Professor, <em class="calibre7">vampires</em>! There's only three
      ways for him to return, and they've <em class="calibre7">all</em> been mentioned in
      the story. <em class="calibre7">Three</em> ways, a pretty significant number, if you
      ask me. So, there's likely followers going for the Stone, the
      Blood, and rounding up friendly vampires as we speak.
      <em class="calibre7">You're</em> a trained combat wizard, Professor of Defence
      Against the Dark Arts at the best school in the country, and pretty
      clearly high level. And yet, even <em class="calibre7">you</em> got captured by
      vampires—so, unless they were the vampire of Merlin himself, your
      captors had to have help from a wizard. A Good wizard wouldn't help
      vampires, so it had to have been an Evil one—maybe <em class="calibre7">working for
      You-Know-Who</em>. So, one of his minions has more than likely
      succeeded in rounding up some poor sucker, no pun intended, to vamp
      our Dark Lord. That means that another minion, if he wants to top
      the first one, has to one-up vampires. That means unicorns, because
      the Stone is too well defended. The dead unicorns would have
      implied that the second, at least, was successful, and You-Know-Who
      can return, if he hasn't already, in some sort of limited form.
      That it was this Giant sort of throws a wrench in my thinking, to
      be honest. Means we have to be even more careful about Snape
      getting the Stone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Snape</em>?" Quirrell asked, surprised.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm surprised you hadn't put it together. Snape's after the
      Stone for <em class="calibre7">sure</em>. He's probably one of those minions I was
      telling you about, and You-Know-Who doesn't even know he
      <em class="calibre7">exists</em>. Or he does know. Or he <em class="calibre7">is</em> You-Know-Who in
      disguise. Amounts to the same thing, really. So we have to be on
      the lookout for Snape."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why," Milo heard an unfortunately-familiar voice, "do you have
      to be <em class="calibre7">on the lookout</em> for me, exactly? Is it because you're
      skipping detention?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Ah, nuts.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, ah, no Professor," Milo stammered. "I was just helping the
      Professor—the other Professor—with this Giant, and we were going to
      the dungeon anyways, so I was just going to see you right
      after."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Interesting," said Snape. "Because you're heading in completely
      the wrong direction. This is the third floor—the dungeon is
      <em class="calibre7">that</em> way." <em class="calibre7">Why has Quirrell become so attached to the
      boy?</em> Snape thought. <em class="calibre7">He must know what I'm up to, and he's
      trying to prevent me from having him expelled for Lucius. What's
      his game? Is he after the Stone?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The b-b-boy is with m-<em class="calibre7">me,</em> Severus," Quirrell said
      fiercely. <em class="calibre7">Why has Severus become so attached to the boy?</em>
      Quirrell thought. <em class="calibre7">He must know what I'm up to, and he's trying
      to prevent me from feeding the boy to Hagrid's dog. What's his
      game? Is he after the Stone?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is he, now?" Snape asked. "I'm afraid I have prior arrangements
      with him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He c-c-can have his d-detention later. I n-need him
      <em class="calibre7">now</em>, this is of upmost i-importance," Quirrell
      maintained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Discipline</em> is what's important, Quirinus," Snape
      pressed. Milo wondered why it was so important to Snape that he get
      Milo for detention... <em class="calibre7">oh</em>, Milo realized suddenly. <em class="calibre7">He's
      going to kill me. I'll just ready a</em> Glitterdust—<em class="calibre7">wait, no,
      that didn't work so well last time. I'll just be on my guard, and
      not get caught flat-footed. Hopefully Quirrell can get rid of
      him.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Th-th-the Troll is what's m-most important. You c-can have him
      a-afterwards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Milo," Snape commanded, "come with me at once. You have
      detention; this transparent method of escaping it shames your house
      and our school. Come with me, or I'll see to it that you're
      expelled."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell ground his teeth in frustration, but couldn't think of
      any way to prevent the boy from going with Snape without
      compromising his cover. Quirrell would pay for this soon, when
      no-one was around. He'd already failed his master too many
      times...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry, Professor Quirrell," Milo said sadly. "I suppose you'll
      have to manage for yourself—maybe you can find a House Elf to help?
      I'll... well, I'll see you around." Sweating profusely, Milo
      followed Snape towards the dungeons, away from his perceived
      protector. Their every footstep, made by Snape's polished loafers
      and Milo's worn adventurer's boots, rang through the empty
      corridors. Even the normally garrulous wall portraits were
      uncharacteristically reticent. Milo took the opportunity to plan
      his defence, should Snape make his move.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Opening move, he'll be expecting a surprise round, but I
      know he's coming,</em> Milo thought. <em class="calibre7">Then it'll be a test of
      reflexes. If I lose, he draws his wand as a move action and uses
      the Killing Curse as a Standard. I die. If I open with</em>
      Glitterdust<em class="calibre7">, and he makes his save, I die. If I open with</em>
      Glitterdust <em class="calibre7">and he fails his save—or, for that matter, I
      use</em> Invisibility—<em class="calibre7">but he beats my 50% concealment, I die.
      If I open with</em> Mirror Image<em class="calibre7">, I have an effective 50%-80%
      miss chance, meaning I only have a 20%-50% chance of dying.</em>
      Mirror Image <em class="calibre7">it is, then, followed by an expeditious retreat of
      a non-magical nature</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo licked his lips nervously as they rounded the last corner
      before Snape's office. He didn't like those odds, and if he
      <em class="calibre7">did</em> die, his chance of getting a <em class="calibre7">Resurrection</em>
      seemed slim. These wizards couldn't bring back the dead, and his
      party members back home wouldn't know he'd died. It was more than
      likely, he realized, that death here would be
      <em class="calibre7">permanent</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gulp.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape opened the heavy wooden door to his office and led Milo
      in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've noticed that you've been falling behind in Potions
      lessons," Snape said slowly to Milo. "And it seemed to me that you
      could use some... <em class="calibre7">extra help</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So, Snape was going to kill Milo during a remedial Potions
      lesson and what, make it look like an accident? Milo wondered why
      the pretense was even necessary. It wasn't as if there were any
      witnesses.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I, ah, just don't seem to have a knack for it," Milo
      admitted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed," Snape grinned slightly. "So, why don't we start with
      something <em class="calibre7">extremely</em> basic? One that it is quite
      <em class="calibre7">impossible</em> for anyone with a drop of magical blood to fail
      at?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure, sure," Milo said distractedly. He was anxiously examining
      the room for hidden traps, and felt a brief pang of homesickness.
      Wellby, their Rogue, never missed a trap—or, more accurately, the
      traps never missed <em class="calibre7">him</em>. But at least they were always
      detected, one way or the other.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, why don't we begin?" Snape asked, and with a flourish of
      his wand, a pewter cauldron drifted slowly towards him from the
      side of the room. <em class="calibre7">So,</em> Milo noticed, <em class="calibre7">Snape has Silent
      Spell. But why did he show me this? As intimidation?</em> "All you
      have to do is pour in three ladles of ordinary water, one teaspoon
      of Flobberworm mucous, and one teaspoon of ordinary glycerol; then
      stir counterclockwise once. It is, literally, the simplest potion
      in existence. A newborn could accomplish it. It makes bubbles, and
      nothing else."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay," Milo said. <em class="calibre7">Maybe Snape's idea is to keep my hands
      busy measuring so I can't go for my wand? Surely he knows by now
      that I don't really need it? It</em> will <em class="calibre7">make my Somatic
      components somewhat more difficult, however, although dropping an
      item is a free action. I'll play along, for now.</em> Milo
      carefully measured water out of a glass beaker and poured it into
      the cauldron, then reached for the Flobberworm mucous.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," Snape said as Milo worked, "a Muggle attempting to
      create the potion would experience an... <em class="calibre7">unfortunate</em> side
      effect."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo's hand froze over the vial of mucous.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"R-really?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sprout sighed as she tried yet another spell to try to
      disenchant the singing pumpkin. Someone (well, clearly, it was the
      Weasley Twins, but without proof, they remained an as-yet
      unidentified "someone") had bewitched all of the decorative
      pumpkins on the second floor to sing "The Wheels on the Bus Go
      Round-and-Round," all at different keys and tempos. The consequent
      cucurbita cacophony was enough to drive even Peeves away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Finite Incantatem!"</em> she cast vainly. The vegetables
      were surprisingly resilient to any attempts at dispelling them.
      <em class="calibre7">If only those boys used their skills for something
      productive,</em> she thought, <em class="calibre7">the world would be better for
      it.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She smelled it well before she saw anything. It wasn't so much
      that the smell was <em class="calibre7">bad</em>, exactly—though it was that—it was
      just <em class="calibre7">overpowering</em>. The smell was huge, one could almost
      say...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...Giant.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a roar so loud that when it ended, Sprout couldn't
      even hear the pumpkins' song.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">EXPECTO PATRONUM!</em>" she screamed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm beginning to worry about Milo," McGonagall told the
      Headmaster. "I can't help but wonder if you weren't wrong about his
      magic being an unusual form of a child's accidental magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, you think he's telling the truth about being a... different
      wizard?" Dumbledore asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I... I really don't know. But his development in
      Transfiguration has been so remarkably stunted that I can't tell if
      he's improved in any way <em class="calibre7">whatsoever</em> since his first day
      off the boats," the Deputy Headmistress said. "And I'm not even
      certain that what he's doing is really <em class="calibre7">Transfiguration</em> at
      all. He's changing the matchstick's colour, to be certain, but...
      something seems off about it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not everyone can wrap their head around Transfiguration. Why,
      Filius says his Hover Charm is worthy of a Seventh Year student,
      and Quirinus has nothing but praise for him. And you heard
      Ollivander's report about the what happened when he touched his
      wand the first time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nevertheless," McGonagall pressed, "I think he may, in fact
      be... he might be a Squib, Headmaster. Why, I was just speaking to
      Severus, and he says that the boy is so hopeless at Potions that he
      actually believes him to be a Muggle, here by accident
      somehow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean to say that you and Severus actually agree on
      something?" Dumbledore asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps. We'll know this afternoon, I believe, as Severus said
      he had developed some sort of test, and I for one—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Headmaster! There's a Troll loose on the second floor!" a
      small, cheerful voice said from behind McGonagall's head. The
      Deputy Headmistress turned around, and saw Sprout's Patronus
      floating behind her. Dumbledore and McGonagall stared at each other
      for a moment, then sprang into action.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll start clearing the area of students—" McGonagall said,
      reaching for her wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—and I'll contact the other Heads of Houses," Dumbledore said,
      standing up so fast that he knocked his chair over.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By the time the smoke cleared, Milo's hearing had mostly
      returned. His robe was in tatters, and he was covered in soot and
      dust.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wh-wh-what was <em class="calibre7">that</em>?" he asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A Muggle chemist, if a Muggle chemist had ever analyzed
      Flobberworm mucous, would tell you that it reacts with the glycerol
      to form nitroglycerin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo blinked blankly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nitroglycerin is a volatile explosive," Snape said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you let <em class="calibre7">newborns</em> do this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. A wizard's inborn magic prevents the chemical reaction from
      occurring, as it is superceded by a magical one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then why did it... ah," said Milo. One could practically hear
      the copper piece drop.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo looked at Snape.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape looked at Milo.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not a word was said, until...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Severus! There's a Troll on the second floor—thought you ought
      to know," said a translucent silvery Phoenix that Milo could
      <em class="calibre7">swear</em> hadn't been there a moment before.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"HolycrapghostPhoenix!" a <em class="calibre7">living</em> Phoenix was CR 24, and
      being a ghost only made it <em class="calibre7">more</em> powerful. Fortunately,
      they were Good-aligned. A Phoenix's fire could deal up to <em class="calibre7">40d6
      damage</em>, although Milo was pretty sure Phoenixes were generally
      somewhat larger than a horse—this one was rather a lot smaller.
      <em class="calibre7">A baby, perhaps?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Get up, boy, and come with me—<em class="calibre7">now!</em>" said Snape. Milo
      wasn't about to refuse a direct command from a man who a
      <em class="calibre7">Phoenix</em> had apparently asked for help, and followed. After
      leaving his office, Snape broke into a dead run towards the
      stairs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are we going after the Troll?" asked Milo as they ran up the
      spiraling staircase. Judging by the dull look in the monster's
      eyes, Milo was fairly confident its Will save was low enough that
      it would fail to <em class="calibre7">Glitterdust</em> for certain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape paused for a moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Boy, look at me," he commanded. Milo shrugged and complied.
      "Now, what were you and Quirrell talking about before I
      arrived?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Troll feeding and grooming," Milo lied blandly. Snape stared at
      him in the eyes for a moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well, we've delayed too long," he said, and started
      climbing again at a hustle. <em class="calibre7">Well, that was weird,</em> Milo
      thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor," Milo said as they continued climbing the stairs,
      "we missed the second floor. This is the third floor," but Snape
      said nothing as they rounded the corner to the forbidden third
      floor corridor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape stopped at the door and waited, still without an
      explanation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor," Milo pressed, "I think I deserve an explanation
      now. What are we doing in front of the corridor of 'Die a horrible
      and painful death?'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop questioning me and be silent," Snape snapped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, do you expect me to be able to simply <em class="calibre7">Detect
      Thoughts</em> or something? I won't be able to understand what's
      happening and act appropriately unless you tell me," Milo said,
      swapping out <em class="calibre7">Invisibility</em>. <em class="calibre7">Detect Thoughts</em> was a
      2nd-level Wizard spell that allowed one to listen to the surface
      thoughts of another. Milo didn't really expect it to beat Snape's
      Will bonus, but everyone rolls a 1 once in a while. For once, it
      appeared, it was Milo's turn to be lucky. Snape turned around,
      catching Milo's eye.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Five points from Gryffindor, and five more if you don't stop
      talking," the Professor said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Fortunately, it appears I got here before Quirrell</em>,
      Snape thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Why is beating Quirrell so important?</em> Milo
      wondered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The boy suspects we were racing Quirrell here. Well, it
      wasn't too hard to figure out, I suppose</em>, Snape thought to
      himself (or so he thought). <em class="calibre7">When he goes for the Stone, I'll be
      ready</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Is Quirrell going for the Stone?</em> Milo wondered.
      <em class="calibre7">That makes no sense at all, unless... Something's going on here
      I don't know about. Maybe Quirrell is trying to prevent Snape from
      getting the Stone? Or they're both going for it? Or Snape knows I'm
      reading his mind and—</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The boy is a Legilimens?</em> Snape thought sharply. There
      was a sudden pain in Milo's temple, and he felt a sudden sense of
      vertigo that knocked him to his knees.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"H-how did you... what was... what just happened?" Milo asked,
      clutching his head. His nose had started running, and he brushed it
      with his sleeve. The <em class="calibre7">Detect Thoughts</em> spell no longer even
      registered Snape as an intelligent being, it was like he wasn't
      even there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Answer me truthfully;I'll know if you're lying," Snape said
      imperiously. "Are you a Legilimens?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah," Milo said, "No?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape frowned. <em class="calibre7">He's telling the truth</em>, Snape thought to
      himself (and, this time, only to himself), <em class="calibre7">and yet... he must
      be lying somehow</em>. <em class="calibre7">Could he be an Occlumens as well? At
      eleven?</em> <em class="calibre7">No. He's not even a wizard. He must have some
      other powers, similar to Legilimancy in effect, but called
      something else.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can you read minds?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah. Um. No," Milo lied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape grinned. It faded quickly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tell me," he said oddly, "do you smell something?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As a general rule, no," Milo said. "But now that you mention
      it..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The silence was only broken by a particularly large spider
      scurrying across the floor, and then a quick flash of emotion from
      Mordenkainen. <em class="calibre7">FEAR, DISTRESS, HORROR.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then the wall exploded.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
