<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>42. To Boldly Go - To Boldly Go, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="42. To Boldly Go"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">To Boldly Go</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It had been his parting gift, after years of tireless service.
      Alastor Moody had inspected every joint and seal himself, of
      course, although if the Boy-Who-Brought-Life-Everlasting had wanted
      old Mad-Eye dead, Alastor reckoned death would have found him long
      ago. But he was a creature of habit, and that was why he had made
      his last request.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The boy had brought in muggles alongside wizards and witches who
      had studied muggle sciences. The First-Saved, Granger, had offered
      to help, and although Mad-Eye had been leery of trusting her again
      after what she had done, the Boy had insisted that she be allowed
      to atone for her 'brief madness' as he'd called it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alastor had suffered the girl to help with the calculations, but
      eventually she had left, the cold stare of the Eye of Vance too
      painful for her, bringing too many reminders of shame and
      defeat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Behind him, the world had receded, no doubt a wonder that would
      move some men to tears – Alastor Moody's all-seeing Eye made brief
      note of it, and continued its search.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Memory had faded and returned, only to fade again. Time had
      become infinite, and then meaningless, and then left him entirely.
      All his former life, Alastor had ventured into the darkness where
      none other had dared to venture, and now he had ventured alone into
      a darkness beyond anything he had imagined.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Build a 100-meter-high fencepost, and a normal man will simply
      walk around it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alastor Moody would walk around it, kill you, then <em class="calibre7">tear down
      the fencepost</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Eye found its target; the Boy's muggle mathematics had been
      spot on. No wizard had ever attempted to Apparate in such a way;
      the Boy had told him that it would be the key to their future, that
      the science done that day would take humanity to the stars.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alastor Moody took form amidst the blackness, the seals of his
      strange suit holding against the void, the sword of Godric
      Gryffindor already descending toward his enemy-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gotcha, ya bastard!" he crowed inside his helmet, and somewhere
      in the middle of ten million miles of emptiness, a tiny golden
      plaque vanished in a tiny flash of light.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
