<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>The Longest Day - The Longest Day Chapter 1: One Small Thing, a Harry Potter + My Little Pony Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="The Longest Day"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1: One Small Thing</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"ON THE LONGEST DAY OF THE THOUSANDTH YEAR, THE STARS WILL
      AID IN HER ESCAPE, AND SHE WILL BRING ABOUT NIGHTTIME
      ETERNAL"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Prophecy spoken by Anstice Trelawney near the newly
      constructed Hogwarts School for Witchcraft and Wizardry, December
      21, 992 C.E.</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Somewhere</em><br class="calibre4"/>
      <em class="calibre7">April 16 1992</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione Jean Granger was dead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Or at least, she reasoned that she was dead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She last remembered drawing in a breath and whispering to Harry,
      "Not your fault." She exhaled, and closed her eyes, and distantly
      heard his voice say, "Don't do this." But she did, and now she was
      here.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Where was here?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her legs were chewed off by a troll. It was terribly painful at
      first, but once she began losing enough blood, the shock overrode
      the physical pain, and she knew she was going to die. And now she
      was dead. There really wasn't any other rational explanation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was alone now, cut off the world, devoid of sensory
      perception, a singular consciousness simply <em class="calibre7">existing</em>,
      capable of one thing, and one thing only: thinking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I think, therefore I am.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was thinking, therefore she <em class="calibre7">was</em>. But simply
      <em class="calibre7">being</em> is not the same as being <em class="calibre7">alive</em>, at least in
      the sense that she was used to thinking about things.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She tried to think what Harry would do in a situation like this.
      Science. He would do science, of course. Step 1: Form a hypothesis.
      Step 2: Do an experiment to test your hypothesis.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The problem was, how exactly does one go about falsifying
      theories like, "I'm in the afterlife" or "I'm just having a bad
      dream"?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She supposed she could falsify the Dream theory by never waking
      up? But she didn't want to not wake up. She could imagine Harry's
      somber face reminding her that reality was indifferent, that her
      <em class="calibre7">wants</em> would have no bearing on the results of the
      experiment. But she wasn't so sure that was the case in this world.
      This world was hers, this world was her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She had the nagging feeling that, if she so chose, she could
      simply fade away into oblivion, abdicating her mind to a blissful
      eternity of nothing. After all, her entire "self" only persisted
      through the active, conscious act of thought, which she could
      deliberately cease at any moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But she didn't want to, so she didn't.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Instead, she decided to do bad science. Her new hypothesis was,
      "I am NOT in a dream." If she could do something that she could
      only do in a dream, she would falsify that hypothesis, and
      therefore prove that she was in fact, dreaming.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was fairly certain that science didn't actually work like
      that, but she didn't have any better ideas at the moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She thought about the few times she had lucid dreams. What was
      it like? She could see, hear, feel, smell, taste… There was a
      world, albeit one of her own making, to interact with. It may have
      been a paper-thin veneer of a world, but it was a world
      nonetheless. This, on the other hand, was emptiness. It was
      nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If she was dreaming, she could make something out of nothing,
      and so she tried. She thought about a ball. Just a simple toy ball,
      to start with. At first, she considered it too abstractly, she was
      envisioning the concept of "ball", and got nowhere. She tried
      again. This time, she tried to actually visualize what this
      specific ball would look like in reality. She defined its size, its
      color, its material. She imagined it close up, what it would have
      felt like if she had a sense of touch, the smell of the rubber
      against her fingers, the sound it made as she ran her hands across
      it. She fixed those values in her mind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was her ball. Baby steps, she told herself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She now tried to think about the ball in relation to another
      object: a floor. A simple, floor of polished metal with no detail
      besides its preternaturally smooth surface. How would the ball
      interact with the floor if she, for example, dropped it? What about
      if she bounced the ball? She played over various scenarios in her
      head, sketching out in excruciating detail the behavior of the
      ball.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After nine or ten different scenarios, she noticed something
      interesting. <em class="calibre7">She</em> was the one playing with the ball. Her.
      Without even deliberately trying to, she was imagining
      <em class="calibre7">herself</em>, her own mind giving herself Form without
      conscious direction. The form had no details, it was just an
      edgeless mass of shadows, but it was unmistakably <em class="calibre7">her</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She looked down. She now had a persistent form in this world:
      fractal black shadows, roiling and twisting, undefined and yet
      concrete. This was her, and she held her ball, and she was bouncing
      it against her floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Baby steps, indeed. <em class="calibre7">So</em>, she thought to herself.
      <em class="calibre7">This is a dream, after a fashion.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">But a dream of what? Her brain had ceased to function,
      presumably. And the patterns of information that made up her
      identity, those patterns were represented by a physical brain when
      she was alive. That brain took those patterns and gave them weight
      and meaning and a means of interacting with other patterns, and it
      was still. Lifeless and fading.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But her brain was simply the medium. Her brain was not
      <em class="calibre7">her</em>. When she was in school before Hogwarts, one of her
      maths professors had scrawled the first seven or so iterations of
      the Fibonacci sequence upon the blackboard. When he eventually
      erased the writing, that did not remove the Fibonacci Sequence from
      reality. Once established, the Sequence would persist, iterating on
      into the infinite, regardless of whether some professor manifested
      those iterations on a blackboard, even if no one was there to
      observe it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She figured that this was the case with her; she was simply a
      pattern of information. An enormously complex, self-referential
      pattern that happened to be aware of itself, but she was a pattern
      nonetheless. Once established, that pattern would persist,
      iterating on into the infinite, regardless of whether some
      collection of protein and fat manifested those iterations in the
      world or not, even if no one was there to observe her, besides
      herself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a reasonable enough explanation, although at the moment
      she hadn't the slightest idea how she might go about testing that
      particular hypothesis. But it didn't really matter much, did it? If
      her theory was wrong, it was wrong, but there was nothing to
      lose.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now that the had a vague concept of how things might work, she
      needed a plan. She knew what she wanted: she wanted to return to
      the real world, to go back to being a flesh and blood girl, to see
      her friends, her family, her teachers again. She also knew that she
      had a friend in that real world who would likely stop at nothing to
      make that happen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She had heard Harry talk ad nauseam about cryonics, the science
      of freezing a body upon death in order to preserve the brain until
      a future era in which it would be possible to reconstruct the
      damage caused by death and restore someone to the world of the
      living. She had seen the wisdom of his suggestions, but had never
      quite gotten around to having the "Hey mum and dad, I want you to
      freeze my corpse if I die" conversation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She suspected that Harry would likely take matters into his own
      hands. He had once sought her assistance in learning the Glacius
      charm, a third-year spell. He never told her why, and she never
      asked, although she had her guess, which was most likely
      accurate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It would be completely in character for Harry to steal her body,
      freeze it, and then stash it away somewhere. He probably had a
      walk-in freezer somewhere in the depths of the extended space in
      his trunk, procured specifically for this purpose. She wondered how
      he would provide it with power, since it wasn't like Hogwarts had
      an electrical outlet anywhere. She recalled from the instruction
      manual of her parents' chest freezer that it used around 400
      kilowatt hours.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She did the quick mental math. 2,000 kilocalories a day was what
      an average person consumed. At four thousand joules per
      kilocalorie, that was 8 million joules per day. Watts were joules
      divided by seconds, and there were 86,400 seconds in a day, so that
      was a little bit less than 100 watts. Multiply that by 24 hours in
      a day by 365 days in a year and you had more than enough power to
      run a freezer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She wondered how many calories a house elf consumed?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She noted that, as her conscious mind focused on this
      digression, she could "see" abstract representations out of the
      corners of her "vision". As she was thinking, she witnessed herself
      crawling into her chest freezer to see if it had enough space; she
      observed Harry eating toast just to make sure he actually consumed
      calories like a normal person; she watched, bemused, as a woebegone
      house elf pedaled laboriously away at a bicycle generator.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Whenever she tried to focus on these abstract visions, they
      flitted away as easily as they came to her. But she found that if
      she gave them weight, specificity, deliberate boundaries and
      identities, they would persist.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had told her once that if there was an outlandish solution
      to a problem that required little to no effort, you may as well try
      it, on the off chance that it would actually work. If it didn't,
      well, then you haven't really lost much. It was for this reason
      that Harry had pledged allegiance to the deities of a hundred or so
      gods of various, mentioning that he was willing to bet thirty
      seconds of his life on Pascal's Wager, and that was it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So, she built herself a Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He stood before her. She studied its face. It was a formless
      mass, devoid of specific details, and yet she knew it was him. It
      was like looking at the night sky, how you could see the stars
      clearly from the corners of your vision but when you tried to look
      at them directly, they faded into darkness. When it spoke, it
      sounded like Harry, at least when he was saying things she
      remembered him saying in the past.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It didn't reply when she asked it if it was alive. She tried to
      think what Harry would say if that same question was asked of him.
      The simulacrum replied in a voice that wasn't-quite-Harry's: "I
      certainly feel alive, but that doesn't really say much, does
      it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She decided to try carrying on a conversation with her
      not-Harry, filling in what she thought the real Harry would say.
      "Am I dead?" She asked it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The concept of FROWN splashed across its face. "Yes, but I'm
      working on fixing that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you think you'll succeed?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. Eventually."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, is there an easy way out? Is there some pathway you can you
      lead me down that ends in a door that I can open and walk back out
      into the real world?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It considered for a moment. "You're trying the outlandish
      solution aren't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She smiled. "Of course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I applaud you on that, but I don't think that will work.
      After all, you know this isn't really me. It's just your
      expectations of what I might do or say. You'd have to be able to
      contain two whole brains worth of information in your one brain for
      it to really be me, and that seems like a contradiction in terms.
      It's interesting that I'm the avatar for your inner monologue when
      it comes to science-y type things. It's not weird, I don't think. I
      told you once that I have simulations of lots of my friends in my
      head. If I think something might be unethical or wrong, I try to
      ask my not-Hermione what she would do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As it spoke on, its voice sounded less like Harry, and more like
      Hermione trying to speak in Harry's voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Oh well, it was worth a shot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Instead, she thought back over the multitude of books she had
      read, trying to think of any magicks capable of translating dreams
      back into reality. One particular entry came to mind, "Extremities
      of Particular Importance" by Alexander Phaethon. It detailed the
      history and descriptions of several magical locations and
      artifacts, many of which were considered little more than myth. The
      depth and breadth of its research led many to consider it a sequel
      of sorts to "A History of Magic", including Bathilda Bagshot
      herself. However, many others were left unsatisfied by its frequent
      forays into the world of unfamiliar mythology and the
      fantastic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One of those fantastic places it described was the dreamscape of
      Tír inna n-Óc. Chapter twenty, page four-thirty-six, her
      near-photographic memory helpfully provided:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"The town of Ipswich often claims to be Britain's oldest
      town, since it is known that the community has persisted unbroken
      since the early seventh century. The wizarding world knows better –
      Diagon Alley is the oldest continuous community in Britain,
      surviving since the fourth century before Christ, when it began as
      a single cottage built by a Greek wizard, a wanderer who had
      abandoned his century-long journey in search of the legendary Cup
      of Midnight in order to create a home in this distant land of
      savages. In one shape or another Diagon has existed ever since,
      rebuilding homes and shops as needed. It is because of this
      antiquity that, when Merlin wrought the stone of the Wizengamot and
      made himself the leader of the magical world, he did so in London.
      He may have also been honouring the long-ago Greeks who brought
      wands and high magic to Britain for the first time, although he
      said nothing of this.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Tír inna n-Óc is older.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">That fact no longer means much, truth be told. Tír inna n-Óc
      was woven from nightmare before Ελαολογος even left in pursuit of
      the Cup of Midnight, and by the time that Cup was broken in the
      tenth century – woe be upon the breaker of that precious cup! – the
      hellscape of Tír inna n-Óc had already been abandoned by the Tuath
      and the Unseelie, and no creature called it home.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The realm persisted, regardless. It had been crafted from
      the horror-dreams of nameless beasts of the sea, creatures no
      longer known to man or wizard that lie still and breathe salt and
      do not die, and Tír inna n-Óc would endure as long as
      they."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It further explained that the place transcended physicality and
      could be accessed from anywhere on the planet using a dark ritual
      that had, unfortunately, been lost to time. She decided that if the
      dreams of these nameless eldritch horrors could be used to build an
      alternate plane of existence, then so could hers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And so it was that she set about the task of building the
      kingdom of her dreams.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The Forbidden Forest</em><br class="calibre4"/>
      <em class="calibre7">June 3rd, 1992</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had checked the books, had learned that since he was too
      young to have sexual thoughts he would be able to approach a
      unicorn without fear. The same books had said nothing about
      unicorns being smart. Harry had already noticed that every
      intelligent magical species was at least partially humanoid, from
      merfolk to centaurs to giants, from elves to goblins to veela. All
      had essentially humanlike emotions, many were known to interbreed
      with humans. Harry had already reasoned out that magic didn't
      create new intelligence but just changed the shape of genetically
      human beings. Unicorns were equinoid, were not even partially
      humanoid, didn't talk, used no tools, they were almost certainly
      just magical horses. If it was right to eat a cow to feed yourself
      for a day, then it had to be right to drink a unicorn's blood in
      order to stave off death for weeks. You couldn't have it both
      ways.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So Harry had gone into the Forbidden Forest wearing his Cloak.
      He had searched the Grove of Unicorns until he saw her, a proud
      creature with a pure white coat and violet hair, with three blue
      blotches on her flank. Harry had gone over, and the sapphire eyes
      had stared at him inquisitively. Harry had tapped out the sequence
      1-2-3 on the ground several times with his shoes. The unicorn had
      shown no sign of responding in kind. Harry had reached over, taken
      her hoof in his hand, and tapped the same sequence with the
      unicorn's hoof. The unicorn had only looked at him curiously.<br class="calibre4"/>
      And something about feeding the unicorn the sleeping-potion-laced
      sugar cubes had still felt like murder. At least, it would have, if
      not for the curious barking noise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked up from his grim work, trying to identify the source
      of the noise in the dark. It seemed to come from a ways off in the
      distance, and something about the high pitched, wheezy noise
      suggested that its source would not pose much of a physical threat.
      It wasn't a low, rumbling sound that Harry might have expected from
      a large dog, nor was it an aggressive growl. It sounded frightened,
      possibly even wounded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The thought crossed Harry's mind that whatever had wounded the
      dog could easily do the same, if not worse, to him. But upon
      logical consideration, (combined with a fair bit of wishful
      thinking), Harry concluded that the non-sapient creatures that
      lived within the Forbidden Forest would never actually harm a
      student. Dumbledore would know that the Forest was a honeypot even
      more enticing than the third-floor corridor. Harry was quite
      certain that there would be beasts that were frightening, creatures
      that may threaten harm. But to actually follow through? As insane
      as Dumbledore was, he still valued the safety and well-being of his
      students.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At that particular thought, Harry felt a brief twinge of dark
      anger, but quickly suppressed it, and resumed his task with renewed
      resolve.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had almost put the sound out of his mind until it returned,
      this time more insistent, and troublingly, closer. Aware that he
      was likely projecting intent where there was none, Harry thought
      that the bark carried with it hints of anger and frustration in
      addition to fear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Warning signs that he had trained himself not to ignore began
      flashing in the back of his thoughts. He may have been safe from
      the creatures in the forest, or so he hoped, but his experience
      with the centaur served as a stark reminder that intelligent beings
      lurked within those woods. What if the incessant barking drew their
      attention? Harry was far from sure that he could rely on another
      deus ex machina from Professor Quirrell; it was due to his failing
      health that Harry was even here in the first place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even if harm did not come to him, it would be quite inconvenient
      if he were to be caught hunched over the body of an almost-dead
      unicorn. Although his justification was reasonable, he doubted that
      others would see things as he did. His anger began to creep back up
      as he imagined himself arguing with well-meaning idiots, pointing
      out the hypocrisy of their carnivorism and being met with looks of
      consternation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The noise roused him from his angry thoughts, close enough now
      to where Harry realized he had to make a decision. He silently
      cursed himself as he acknowledged that he should have been thinking
      of a plan this entire time rather than reassuring himself that he
      was safe. He decided, rather impromptu, to simply hide and observe.
      He removed his broomstick from his pouch and placed it between his
      legs, ready to mount in the event he needed to beat a hasty
      retreat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In a few short moments, the creature emerged into the clearing,
      and immediately began frantically barking upon seeing the collapsed
      body of the unicorn. It was, as Harry suspected, a dog, but one of
      the oddest dogs he had ever seen. It was small, no bigger than a
      Pekingese, mind you, and its fur was a pale violet, with green ears
      a tuft of darker green hair on the top of its head. It wore a
      darker purple spiked collar around its neck, and there was a
      clearly visible tag attached to the collar. Harry could see from
      the distance that the tag was embossed with an image of a heart,
      but couldn't discern if there was writing or not.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Either way, the implication was clear: this was someone, or
      something's pet. And judging by its reaction to seeing the
      almost-dead unicorn, Harry had an idea of whose it might have been.
      The implications of this had Harry feeling suddenly ill.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The dog let out a mournful, wailing howl, and loped over to the
      unicorn, pawing at her flank, sniffing around her ears.
      Tentatively, it poked the side of her face with its snout, and
      began howling again in earnest. It collapsed against her, curling
      into the crook of her neck and whimpering softly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The unicorn's leg jerked slightly, immediately silencing the
      whimpers and moans, and the dog excitedly jumped up and paced
      around, unsure of what to do. It paused momentarily, then stiffened
      slightly as if it had an idea, and ran to the unicorn's snout,
      putting his ear against it. After a few short moments, it excitedly
      leaped into the air and shouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"HERE! She's over here!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had brief flashes of his "Snakes are sentient?" moment, but
      reminded himself that people don't eat dogs, or at least people in
      his culture don't. He considered the possibility that humans were
      waging systematic genocide and slavery against an entire sentient
      species. His inner Slytherin drowned out the other voices that
      began to come to life, shouting, "You won't be able to do anything
      about it if you're killed or thrown in jail, you prat!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That seemed to do the trick, and Harry snapped out of his moment
      of contemplation to focus on the problem at hand. He could now hear
      voices, human voices from far off in the distance, but not the
      direction of the castle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was time to leave. Now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He adjusted his footing in order to hop onto his broom, and as
      he did so, he stepped on an exceptionally poorly placed and
      inconveniently brittle fallen tree branch, which broke the silence
      with a resounding SNAP.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Immediately, the dog's head snapped up in the direction of the
      noise, stared straight at Harry, and began to charge.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Crap.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry fumbled with the broom, forcing it between his legs, but
      before he could launch, the dog was upon him, gripping the corner
      of the invisibility cloak in its teeth and ripping it from him,
      revealing all of Harry's head and most of his torso.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The remainder of the cloak was pinned between Harry's legs and
      the broomstick. As Harry tried to rise into the air, the broom
      pitched upward as he struggled to free the cloak from the curiously
      strong grip of the dog's jaws. The dog clamped down resolutely upon
      the fabric, stepping slowly backwards, dragging the broom backward
      in midair along with him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's mind raced. If he shrugged off his Cloak of
      Invisibility, he would free himself and could escape to safety. But
      it was his quest item, and he <em class="calibre7">really</em> didn't want to lose
      it. Besides, there were no guarantees that he would even escape if
      he were to free his broom. And what if this dog-who-talks could be
      reasoned with?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was about to come up with yet another brilliant
      rationalization for not leaving behind his Cloak when the decision
      was made for him: with a resounding SMACK, someone had crashed into
      him in a flying leap, knocking him from his broomstick to the
      ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What'd you do with her, egghead?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was pinned down a witch who looked to be no older than a
      teenager, maybe a fifth or sixth year? She had short-cropped hair
      that he could have sworn was rainbow in color, and was wearing a
      jean jacket over her school skirt. Harry breathed out a sigh of
      relief; an angry student was, objectively, loads better than an
      angry centaur. She did not seem to appreciate his apparent relief,
      and shouted again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Answer me! Say something!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uhmmm… What did I do with who?" Harry stammered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Our friend, dummy!" The girl shouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had suspected as much. He hadn't considered that the unicorn
      may have been someone's pet. It seemed a bit of a stretch to call
      it a "friend", but he knew other people tended to be much fonder of
      animals than himself, so he didn't press the point. "I'm sorry. I
      didn't realize. I really didn't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Didn't realize what? What did you do to her?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't think now was the best time to mention that he fed
      the unicorn poisoned sugar-cubes, nor that he intended to
      eventually have its sweet, life-giving blood drained and consumed
      in what he could only assume was a ghastly ritual, unpleasant to
      behold. So instead, he said something that was true from a certain
      point of view: "I… I put her under an enchantment. In order to keep
      her safe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At this, the dog, who had been lurking back a few paces and was
      now closer to the unicorn than Harry, perked his ears up and spoke.
      "What do you mean, keep her safe?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the dog spoke, Harry could hear other students making their
      way through the woods, although oddly enough, they weren't coming
      from the direction of Hogwarts. As he squinted through the darkness
      to try to make out their forms, the dog spoke again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey! You! What were you keeping her safe from?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This one was easy enough for Harry to answer truthfully,
      "Something in this forest has been killing unicorns and eating
      them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At this, the rainbow-haired girl and the dog exchanged dark,
      knowing glances, and the witch spoke. "Yeah… we know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She stood up, still above him but no longer pinning him to the
      ground. As she did, several more students emerged into the
      clearing. It was three more witches, all around the same age as the
      rainbow-haired one. He was immediately stricken by their odd
      choices of wardrobes and hair colors. The first into the clearing
      was a blonde witch wearing boots and a cowboy hat, who immediately
      ran over to the unicorn upon seeing her and kneeled down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The second to emerge had hot pink, curly hair and wore a ruffled
      skirt colored a similarly intense shade of pink. She didn't seem to
      walk so much as <em class="calibre7">bounce</em>, and she seemed more interested in
      Harry than she did the unicorn. "OoooooooOOOOooo. You look like
      us!" she squealed as she peered down, wide-eyed over him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lastly, a timid-looking witch with pale pink hair and a blue
      dress emblazoned with butterflies peeked out from behind a tree,
      looking like she would rather be almost anywhere in the world
      besides a dark, scary forest populated with unicorn-eating
      monsters.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The girl standing over him looked to her friend in the cowboy
      hat. "We caught him casting a spell on her. Says he was trying to
      protect her, protect her from some kind of monster that's eating
      unicorns," she indicated down to Harry with one hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I'll be hogtied," the witch in the cowboy hat drawled.
      She had a curious accent; it reminded Harry of the female detective
      in an American movie his father had taken him to see last summer,
      The Silence of the Lambs, much to the consternation of his mother
      when she found out. The accent stood out to him then because he had
      never heard anything like it before, and it stood out to him
      now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The girl with the pale pink hair shivered a bit and spoke in a
      voice barely louder than a whisper, "You don't think the monster is
      anywhere near here, do you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry spoke up, louder than he probably should have. "No, it's
      not. The last time I saw him, I… well, I scared it off." At this,
      the rainbow-haired girl and the bouncy pink witch who had been
      staring at him both seemed impressed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, what's this enchantment you put on her?" the rainbow one
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It put her to sleep. It's not permanent."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, take it off, then!" she demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wasn't sure that a <em class="calibre7">Finite</em> would actually do
      anything against the effects of a potion, but he figured he may as
      well give it a shot. Rainbow Witch, which Harry had begun to call
      her in his mind, stepped off of him, and he stood up, brushing
      branches off of his robes before pointing his wand at the
      unicorn.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Finite Incatatem!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The unicorn's equine features began to melt away into those of a
      human female with pale white skin and purple hair. Harry suddenly
      felt the urge to vomit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His eyes grew wide as he consider just how incredibly
      short-sighted and <em class="calibre7">stupid</em> his tests for sapience had been.
      Tapping 1-2-3? That's it? Because she failed to ape his pattern, he
      was prepared to drug her and present her almost-dead body to
      Professor Quirrell to feast upon. He wasn't sure which thought
      scared him more, the fact that he almost took part in murder, or
      what Professor Quirrell's reaction would have been upon drinking
      the blood of a transfigured Animagus instead of a unicorn. Either
      way, he vowed to be much, much more careful about this sort of
      thing in the future.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She probably should get taken to a healer, just to be safe…"
      Harry started.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are there any nearby?" Scaredy-Cat asked. In absence of knowing
      their actual names, he had assigned them nicknames. In addition to
      "Rainbow Witch", he had nicknamed the timid one "Scaredy-Cat", the
      blonde witch "Clarice", and the pink one "Pinky".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was a bit confused by her question. "Closer than the
      hospital wing? I doubt it… The centaurs might have one, but I don't
      think they're particularly keen on helping me out right now. I can
      bring her there on my broom, I think that would probably be
      fastest. You all can find your way out, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm coming with you, then!" the talking dog yelled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amidst fearing for his life and his momentary moral crisis,
      Harry had totally forgotten about the purple-and-green dog. Given
      that the girl he had poisoned was obviously an Animagus, the fact
      that the dog could speak like a human suddenly made a lot more
      sense.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You should be small enough in that form for me to carry you.
      Are you an Animagus, too?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I'm a dragon!" the dog replied in an indignant tone that
      Harry mistook for sarcasm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure. Just, don't transform while we're up in the air,
      okay?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At those words, Rainbow Witch's eyes immediately snapped up.
      "Did you say, 'up in the air'?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at her, curiously. He swung a leg over his broom
      and kicked off the ground, hovering a few feet over the forest
      floor to demonstrate. Rainbow Witch's jaw dropped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That. Is. AWESOME! Where can I get one?" She demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Jeez, you're acting like you've never seen a broomstick before…
      Look, just, meet me at the hospital wing and we can talk about it
      then. Will one of you help me get her," he indicated with his head
      towards the unconscious, purple-haired girl, "up on the broom?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a dull POP of an Appartion, yet another newcomer appeared
      in the clearing. Harry almost fell off his broom at the site of…
      whatever it was. At first, Harry though it was some kind of Satyr,
      as it stood on two legs and had the head of a horse. But upon
      closer inspection, he saw it had deer antlers, the arm of a lion, a
      lizard's leg, the claw of an eagle and the leg of a goat. It also
      had something that looked like a unicorn horn on the top of his
      head, and mismatched wings.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now you wait just a hot moment," the creature demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had immediately shifted into a defensive position on his
      broom, ready to fire a curse at a moment's notice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, come now, little one. What are you going to do, curse me
      with that fish?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's eyes darted back and forth as the wand in his hand had
      apparently transformed into a small haddock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who, or what, are you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why, the elemental spirit of Chaos, of course! Pleased to meet
      you, my general."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry said nothing, staring back, nonplussed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course, I go by other names as well. Shiggoth of the Spire?
      Aforgomon? Yog-Sothoth, Lurker at the Threshold? He who knows the
      gate, he who is the gate? The key and guardian of the gate? Ringing
      any bells at all? No?" The creature sighed dramatically. "You
      summon me from across the multiverse and this is the welcome I
      receive?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was again nonplussed. "Summon? Don't tell me that 'shuffle
      duffle muzzle muff' is actually a real incantation." At those
      words, the creature threw its hands up defensively and shrieked.
      Indignant, Harry asked, "Are you serious?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I'm Peter Pettigrew!" The creature waited for a reaction.
      "Nothing? Is this thing on?" It tapped on a microphone that was not
      in its hands a moment earlier. "Gee, tough crowd. No, I'm not being
      serious. That was just a ridiculous rhyme. Anyway, I suppose you
      can just call me Discord."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, Discord. What… what do you want?" Harry wasn't sure what
      he was supposed to say.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The same as you, I'm sure."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry let out a humorless chuckle, "I highly doubt that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm here to help out a friend," Discord declared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rainbow Witch scoffed, and rolled her eyes. "Uh huh."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh Dashie, you wound me to my core," Discord turned to her. "As
      it so happens, I heard of your little predicament. Your little
      bookworm friend got in above her head, now she's gone, and you're
      trying to find her and bring her back. I'm going to help."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How?" Rainbow Witch and Harry both asked in unison, and then
      briefly glanced at each other, somewhat confused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, sadly, we creatures of god-like powers have certain silly
      little rules we have to abide by, especially when we're in other
      realms like this one. I cannot interfere directly. So don't go
      expecting any deus ex machinas at the end of your little story. In
      fact, I don't think I can interfere at all. Sorry, chum." He placed
      one of his paws on Harry's shoulders as if to illustrate, and it
      passed through him as if he, (or Harry) was little more than
      air.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Clarice spoke up, hands on her fists, "It doesn't sound like
      you're being honest with us, here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Et tu, Jackie? Well, I have to admit, I'm not acting
      <em class="calibre7">completely</em> altruistically, there's something in it for
      me." Discord conceded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh huh, that's what I figured." Clarice replied, and they all
      stared at Discord expectantly. Discord put a single talon to his
      chin, stroking his goatee while leaning over and examining Harry
      intently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How much do you know about Heat Death?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was taken off-guard by the question. He suddenly was much
      more interested in what this "Discord" thing had to say. "More than
      most, but not as much as I'd like. Why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You might say it's the opposite of chaos when you think about
      it, isn't it? Everything in perfect, pristine equilibrium? It all
      sounds terribly dull. Fortunately for me, the so-called laws of
      physics are just optional guidelines, and with a little hard work
      and elbow grease, I could probably get things moving again, but it
      would take a really, really, reaaaaaaallllllllly long time."
      Discord emphasized.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're saying you could single-handedly reverse the heat-death
      of the universe." Harry said, flatly. "How long are we talking
      here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's the biggest number you can think of?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, three to the power of… three to the third power of three,
      to the power of itself?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Discord paused for a moment, apparently working out the math in
      his head. "Yes, that seems suitably absurdly high. Let's say that
      many years, give or take. Not that I mind the work, of course. I'm
      nothing, if not hard-working." At that, it was Clarice's turn to
      scoff, "Never mind her. No, what I'm not particularly looking
      forward to, as much as it pains me to admit it in front of them, is
      making new friends. I rather like the ones I have."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At that, Scaredy-Cat Apparated into his arm, and he mussed her
      hair with his knuckles. Judging by the perturbed look on her face,
      Harry did not think she Apparated herself willingly. Nonetheless,
      she gave Discord a weak smile. "Well, we like you, too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Speak for yourself…" Rainbow Witch muttered under her breath.
      Scaredy-Cat gave her a withering glare, and she begrudgingly
      conceded, "Yeah… We like him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is crazy." Harry's checklist of
      things-to-do-using-the-newfound-science-of-magic included, near the
      very bottom, figuring out how to circumvent the inevitable
      accumulation of entropy, so it was at least nice to know he had a
      resource he could consult in that department. But there were a lot
      of steps between here and there. "So how DO you plan to help?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, it's not going to be me that helps you. Really, these girls
      are going to do most of the hard work. I'm just going to kick
      things off, so to speak, like a Greek chorus delivering the
      Prologue. You see, as you may have guessed, we're not from here,
      and these girls will need a place to stay."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a flourish, and a puff of smoke, a massive woman stood in
      place of where Discord had been not moments earlier. She was a
      handsome, olive-skinned older woman, wearing black satin dress
      robes. She was the tallest person he had ever seen, taller even
      than Hagrid, though not nearly as wide.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He… or she, rather, leaned down into a low bow. Even when her
      head was perfectly level with her torso, she was still taller than
      Harry. "Madame Olympe Maxime, charmed, I'm sure." Discord spoke in
      the voice of the woman, with an exaggerated French accent that
      bordered on comical. "I shall tell zee 'eadmaster, Dumbly-dorr, zat
      we are visiting students from Beauxbatons. I 'ave, of course, seen
      to it zat zee true 'eadmistress of Beauxbatons will be blissfully
      unaware of my impersonation,"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pinky giggled and clapped her hands together. "You sound so
      cultured!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now of course, zese 'orrible outfits of yours simply will not
      do." Discord snapped her fingers, and the witches were suddenly
      clad in identical periwinkle dresses, shawls and sleeves, and each
      had a matching hat sitting at a jaunty angle atop their heads.
      Fortunately, Harry could still tell them apart by their hair color,
      if not their mannerisms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And of course, names, we will need names. 'Oo would believe you
      to be students with those ridiculous names of yours? You!" Discord
      snapped her fingers at Rainbow Witch. "What shall we call you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh… Manebow… Smash?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Discord turned to the other witches in turn, snapping his
      fingers at each.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maudileena!" Pinky giggled, clapping her hands. "This is
      exciting! We're like spies!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Clarice stammered when put on the spot, trying to think of a
      name that would sound normal, whatever that meant. "Babs?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Scaredy-Cat looked down and kicked at the dirt lightly with her
      toe while she spoke in barely more than a whisper, "Jane?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Discord considered this for a second. "'Orrible. Zey are all
      'orrible names, except for yours, of course," she nodded at
      Scaredy-Cat. "Tisiphone, Megaera, Alecto," he pointed at Rainbow
      Witch, Clarice and Pinky, respectively. "Zat is what we shall call
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tisiph-i-what?" Rainbow Witch cried, indignantly. "Those names
      aren't any better than ours."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I think you will find them more than appropriate, my little
      'umans. Now come. You, zee chosen one, 'op along on your little
      broom and fly to zee 'ospital."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about me? What's my name going to be?" The purple dog
      piped up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, but you are used to being an afterthought, no? We shall
      simply call you Spike."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Spike wasn't sure if this was an insult or not, but didn't want
      to waste any time. He loped over to where Harry was floating on his
      broom, and Harry lowered himself enough so that Spike could hop
      into his arms, and then nuzzled up to the unconscious body slumped
      over the broom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Harry raised himself up, he paused for a moment. "I know that
      beggars can't be choosers… but you mentioned something about
      helping me bring back Hermione?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I said nussing of zee sort, 'Arry Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned. "You said you were going to help me find my
      'bookworm friend'."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, silly boy. I was talking about zee uzzer bookworm friend,
      ZEIR bookworm friend." At that, Discord's voice changed back to its
      original rather than that of a French cartoon. "What a delightfully
      unlikely and totally not-intentional misunderstanding!" Discord
      tittered, and then resumed the French accent. "I only told you I
      would help you stop zee eternal night."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rolled his eyes. "Right. Well, like I said, beggars can't
      be choosers. See you all back at the castle. It's that way," he
      pointed, and launched upward as Tisiphone stared longingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So… awesome…" she whispered under her breath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"'E is taking zis all in stride, don't you sink?" Discord asked,
      as he watched Harry fly away into the distance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, if he can help us find Twilight, then I don't really give
      two darn toots how he takes things," Clarice, now called Megaera,
      muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, zat is the spirit! Now come, we have an 'eadmaster to
      meet!"</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
