<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>The Longest Day - The Longest Day Chapter 12: Both Sides Now, a Harry Potter + My Little Pony Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="The Longest Day"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s12" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 12: Both Sides Now</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">"So." Harry reiterated. "All the members of both armies need to
      move into the safe zone. But we can't cast any magic once we're
      inside there, so the main questions are whether, firstly, Daphne's
      spell to get them into the Sanctuary at the same time will work,
      and secondly, whether we can communicate to the four of them the
      how to cast the spell. Which I am at a loss on both counts; I don't
      even know if they can use magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why wouldn't they be able to use magic? They're from
      Beauxbatons, they're not Squibs." Zabini interjected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had expected that someone would question this, and he had
      a response at the ready. "Because they don't have wands; I can only
      assume the professor has taken them away."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So why don't we just give them one of ours?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Crap.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry mentally kicked himself. He needed a reminder to start
      thinking three or four levels deep when simulating discussions.
      Unfortunately, unlike Draco, Harry did not have a tutor from the
      time he could start talking to teach him the fine art of lying
      through his teeth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, give one to her, to Pinkie," Harry said, exasperated, and
      then quickly caught his mistake. "The pink one, I mean."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna volunteered and walked up to Pinkie Pie, handing over her
      wand. Pinkie nodded solemnly, and spoke in a thick, distinctly
      not-Pinkie accent, "My hovercraft is full of eels."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The narwhal bacons at midnight," Luna responded, serenely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait, you can understand her?" Draco sputtered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm? Oh, no. Not in the slightest." Luna smiled and stared off
      in the distance, twirling a lampshade that she was inexplicably
      carrying with her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As a sidebar, Tracey Davis leaned over to Lavender Brown and
      whispered, "What is she even doing here? She doesn't even go to
      Hogwarts yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lavender shrugged, "Madame Maxime granted her special
      disposition to participate. Overheard her talking to Professor
      Quirrell, something about needing a dotty character for comic
      relief, and then something or other about her having a such a big
      role in some kind of rolling cannon?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At this point, Luna, who was clearly eavesdropping, hung the
      lampshade over her head and chimed in, "It doesn't at all sound
      like a cheap attempt at backpedaling to cover up a mistake in
      continuity."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Meanwhile, Pinkie was examining the wand curiously, holding it
      by the wrong end, testing its flexibility, and even trying to take
      a small nibble from it. "DO YOU want… Do you WANT… Do you want, to
      go back to my place, BOUNCY bouncy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right then." Draco shook his head. "Daphne, tell us again about
      the spell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Technically, it's a Class II Dark Spell, but no one ever really
      bothers with enforcing those classifications. It's designed to help
      thieves bypass magically locked doors. It teleports the target a
      few feet in a given direction."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But crucially, it CAN be cast on multiple people
      simultaneously, correct?" Harry asked, partially to reassure
      himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course." Daphne drew a pair of circles with her wand and
      spoke firmly, "<em class="calibre7">Hocerat Triumphi</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Draco both briefly glowed a dull blue, disappeared,
      and then immediately instantiated a few feet away past the barrier
      in a poof of orange light. Harry held his hands in front of
      himself, impressed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Applejack, Rainbow Dash, and Fluttershy were watching intently.
      Applejack gestured and started speaking quickly to Pinkie Pie. "I'm
      glad you guys… skipped a class. We're having fun, aren't we?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rainbow Dash nodded in agreement. "I wanna play video
      games."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We had a good conversation, knowwhatI'msayin'?" Applejack
      pointed to the barrier, then at Harry and Draco. She did a gesture
      to Pinkie Pie, pantomiming a rough approximation of Daphne's wand
      movement. "You! You're the ringleader here," she barked, and then
      let out a stream of gibberish, furiously sniffling as she explained
      something to Pinkie that was as comprehensible to everyone else
      watching as it was perfectly reasonable to Pinkie.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you getting any of this?" Harry leaned over to Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope. I think she said something about 'getting in the fridge'?
      Anyway, it looks like she's understanding it. But, how are we going
      to teach them the incantation if we can't communicate with them? If
      they were from Durmstrang, there would be a good chance they knew
      the spell. But Beauxbatons isn't exactly famous for its acceptance
      of 'dark magic'."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The question was more or less answered for them as Pinkie worked
      her mouth around the unfamiliar words. "Hock-a-rat
      Tri-Umphrey."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few students cheered in surprise, and Draco gaped at them,
      then turned, still open-mouthed, to Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry just shrugged. "I'm kind of just learning to lean into
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Seamus, who had been more silent than usual and wearing a stormy
      expression the entire time, finally spoke up. "You know, this all
      seems a bit too clever, this whole 'Everyone gets an Outstanding'
      plan. It's a bit cockamamie if you ask me. It's like the time my
      dad decided to spend his whole bonus at the tracks, told me mum he
      had a 'system' that was foolproof. Lost it all on three races."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry suddenly became acutely aware of the fact that Seamus was
      holding his wand, and Draco suddenly became acutely aware of
      several members of both Chaos Legion and Dragon Army shifting their
      robes in that telltale way of readying one's wand without making it
      obvious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Seamus, what you're experiencing is called the Semmelweis
      Effect. You're so used to the existing paradigm that you are
      reflexively rejecting evidence to the contrary."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't condescend me. I did your anti-conformity training, just
      like the rest of Chaos Legion." Seamus spat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rolled his eyes. "Did you? You barely made a peep when you
      were supposed to be sneering! Face it, you expect things to be a
      certain way, and you don't like it when things don't meet those
      expectations."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Seamus muttered under his breath in reply, "I don't think
      Hermione would-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Snap.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"HERMIONE-" Harry roared, "-wouldn't be DEAD if it weren't for
      you… you PUPPETS. You CHILDREN. If more than a handful of you had
      the guts to do anything besides what you've been told by an
      authority figure! Now just… just SHUT UP, and do what I say."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If the irony of that sentence occurred to anyone in the crowd,
      no one dared put a voice to it.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">As they crossed the threshold of the Sanctuary and made their
      way back to the starting point, several students looked expectantly
      up at the scoreboard. They were puzzled to find that nothing had
      changed, that all their grades were still represented by hazy
      question marks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They also saw Professor Quirrell sitting down on a wooden chair
      that almost looked like a throne on the dais in the clear. He had a
      vaguely annoyed expression on his face and was slowly clapping his
      hands sardonically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco had a growing sense of apprehension in the pit of his
      stomach.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor? The game is over." Harry said timidly, his final
      words being equal parts statement and question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is it? It would seem that in your maddeningly endless quest to
      prove your own cleverness at the expense of all else, you failed to
      heed the rules. And worse still, you leveraged your position of
      authority to browbeat other students into accepting your own flawed
      interpretation. Mr. Finnegan was quite correct that I would not
      have allowed for such an obvious, elementary loophole in my final
      exam of all things."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was dumbfounded, but he had at least enough sense to not
      even attempt an argument with the Professor when he was in this
      state. Although his voice was relatively calm, Harry could see that
      he was seething. He tested the waters, "What do you mean,
      Professor?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor repeated himself from before, "The game shall end
      in one of two conditions: when a team's Protectorates cross the
      bounds of the Sanctuary, or when the allotted time of two hours has
      elapsed. Both ending conditions come with certain consequences.
      Neither of those conditions has occurred. 'A team' implies the
      singular. The rules do not say, 'When one or more teams'. A team.
      A. One. There is a winner, and there is a loser. And your actions
      have seen to it now that there will be far more losers than
      winners</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You see, your friends," he gestured towards them with a half
      flourish, punctuated by a flick of his wrist, "From whom I have
      just now removed the Incantation of Babel, and can now understand
      what I am saying, are in a bit of a predicament. The only way for
      the game to end before the two-hour mark has elapsed, is for one of
      the two pairs to cross the threshold of the Sanctuary. The rules do
      not, incidentally, say anything as to which direction the crossing
      must occur. And yet, also as per the rules, at the moment they
      cross the threshold, any members of their team outside the bounds
      of the Sanctuary will forfeit the game."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Including themselves…" Harry whispered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, including themselves. Which put their team at quite a
      disadvantage… But then, what of the other team? The rules also
      happen to clearly state that whoever from the other team is within
      the Sanctuary at the time that their opponents' Protectorates cross
      the boundary, they will also forfeit the game. Now, of course, you
      can get around that by simply having the other team exit the
      boundary… The rest of the team, except for that team's
      Protectorates, of course. It's almost as if these awkward,
      circuitous rules were specifically designed to punish a student who
      would attempt to violate the spirit of the test."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's mind was racing. It was questionable enough, drawing an
      arbitrary distinction between "a team" and "multiple teams". The
      sum of all integers greater than or equal to one is necessarily
      inclusive of the set of all integers equal to one. That said, he
      should have been tipped off by the unnecessary specificity of the
      rules. Arbitrariness was either the sign of a poorly designed
      system or a deliberate choice meant to avoid a particular outcome.
      Harry should have known that Professor Quirrell was not a poor game
      designer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But then again…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor, I have a question."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I cannot promise to answer it, but either way, I would make it
      quick. The clock, as they say, is ticking."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry spoke quietly, in deference. "Will you be upset or angry
      if I act the part of the teacher toward you and teach a lesson?
      Even if I point out a mistake that is simple and obvious and makes
      you feel… stupid?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," hissed Professor Quirrell. "Not if the lesson is
      true."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry breathed a sigh of relief. "You see, I think you have a
      blind spot around strategies that involve doing <em class="calibre7">nice</em>
      things for other people. To the point where it stops you from
      achieving your own values of self-interest. Perhaps you think… it's
      not your style, I suppose. In fact, that particular part of your
      self-image… May have cost you everything." Harry made eye contact
      and put hard emphasis on that last word.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He continued, "I asked you once when speaking of levels of
      anticipation, at what level did you play the game? Do you remember
      how you replied?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One level above you." The Professor replied, with a slight,
      twisted grin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well… Somebody very wise once told me, sometimes the only
      winning move is not to play."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor waited a moment as if expecting more than this.
      When nothing more came, he let out a slight, disappointed sigh. "I
      see. Very well, then. Make the choice of inaction, and see what
      that yields. Although I fail to see what your 'lesson' has taught
      me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "That's not what I mean, and although I
      don't agree with your ambiguous wording and interpretation of the
      rules, I respect your right to dictate the terms of the game. But
      that's all it is: a game. This isn't life. Failure doesn't mean
      death. But, if I do fail here, it does mean that a large number of
      people who otherwise would have trusted my judgment and followed me
      at some point in the future, may now think twice. Which… now that I
      think about it, perhaps that was your intent."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor gave a slight nod.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, if I were to do something <em class="calibre7">nice</em> for the rest of the
      students at a personal cost to myself, then, well… <em class="calibre7">That</em>, I
      think, would be the optimal strategy overall. For life."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor narrowed his eyes, which momentarily flitted in
      the direction of a nearby banyan tree, tracking the movement of a
      fat blue jay which had dived down from the higher treeline
      comprised of the more mature trees. It was a rare momentary
      distraction which Harry barely noticed, but he said nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Casting magic inside the Sanctuary would forfeit the game… For
      one person. If I were to cast the same spell and transport the four
      of them outside the boundaries, then the game would be over for me.
      But it would give everyone else a second chance. So I can see that
      you were playing one level above me. But as such, I simply choose
      not to play at all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry lifted his wand and pointed it towards Fluttershy, Rainbow
      Dash, Pinkie Pie, and Applejack. "I will make the sacrifice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor did not move, even when Harry was interrupted by a
      shout from near him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No!" Shouted Draco. "Harry, <em class="calibre7">I</em> will make the
      sacrifice!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hushed whispers fell across the crowd, and Harry stared,
      nonplussed. "I… no. This wasn't your idea. I should be the one who
      takes the fall."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco leaned in to whisper to Harry, "Do you really think that
      I, a Malfoy, could not recover from one failing grade?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Plus, you get major brownie points just for volunteering
      yourself, even if I don't let you sacrifice yourself. Well played,
      Draco, well played.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draco, NO!" Pansy Parkinson shouted, dramatically. "Don't do
      it! I'll do it! I'll sacrifice myself for you, er, I mean, for
      everyone. Choose me, Draco! Let it be me!" She held her hands
      together over her heart but was quickly shoved out of the way by
      Millicent Bulstrode, who lifted a beefy hand into the air.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It shouldn't be that twig! Pick me! Let me do it! I'll make the
      sacrifice!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron Weasley, quite put out at the idea of a Slytherin being more
      brave and altruistic than a Gryffindor, shot up his hand without
      any real idea of what he was getting into. "No. I'll make the
      sacrifice!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Immediately, a handful of other Gryffindor first years who
      didn't want to be outshone by Ron Weasley of all people, also
      stepped forward, declaring "I'll make the sacrifice!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At this point, several Hufflepuffs were visibly chuffing at this
      display of blatant virtue signaling. After all, loyalty and
      friendship were the virtues of Hufflepuff, not fire-headed
      Gryffindorks. "Stand down, men. I shall make the sacrifice." Ernie
      Macmillan shouted, imperiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pinkie Pie, who was thrilled by the display of her absurdity,
      clapped her hands together and squealed, jabbing her hand into the
      air. "I am Spartacus!" But she quickly put her hand down again
      after Rainbow Dash gave her a quick nudge to the ribs. Applejack,
      meanwhile, had her arms folded and was watching the proceedings
      silently and with apparent displeasure. Fluttershy, on the other
      hand, was barely paying attention, sitting on the grass near a
      small banyan sapling, mounding dirt around its roots.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is, I admit… unexpected." The Professor managed through
      gritted teeth. "I suggest you determine which of you will give up
      your grade for the year quickly, as the two hours approach quickly.
      And not only are you racing against time, but I can assure you I
      will spend the remaining minutes until the game ends reviewing the
      rules, looking for a way to disallow this display of
      ridiculousness."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As he spoke, he strolled across the dais and leaned against a
      modestly sized tree. He leaned against it and folded his arms, but
      then looked up, annoyed, at a rotund little bird that was perched
      near his elbow. With a hard thud, he whipped out his fist and sent
      the tiny creature flying. It collided into a nearby tree with a
      sickening crack and then tumbled lifelessly to the ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the ensuing din of discussion, no one noticed Pinkie Pie and
      Rainbow Dash staring, open-mouthed, glancing at each other with
      extreme apprehension. Nor did they notice Applejack, who was near
      the Professor, slowly back away, careful not to make any sudden
      movements.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They certainly did not notice the muffled, quiet gasp from
      Fluttershy, or the immediate tension that rippled throughout her
      delicate muscles. It barely registered when she slowly rose up, her
      fists balled, and only an exceptionally astute observer would have
      noticed that the rays of the sun flickering through the canopy
      played a trick of the light, making her eyes look a fiery red.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">However, the assembled students could not help but notice when
      she stood on her tiptoes to face the Professors and screamed in a
      preternaturally loud voice: "NO!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is absolutely ENOUGH! I have watched you this whole week,
      and the healthier you have become, the more awful you have behaved.
      You think that just because you're so dark and mysterious and
      powerful, that gives you the right to be terrible to everyone.
      Well, <strong class="calibre9">GUESS WHAT?!</strong> I've seen bad guys who are ten
      times as scary as you! Where I'm from, we have things that are
      <em class="calibre7">actually</em> scary, but you think that just because you're the
      biggest, baddest, meanest wizard here at this school, or maybe even
      this entire land, you think that means something!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She inched closer to Professor Quirrell's face. "Well,
      <strong class="calibre9">CONGRATULATIONS!</strong> You're the <em class="calibre7">scariest bunny at
      the petting zoo!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pinkie Pie clapped a hand over her mouth, and Rainbow Dash
      whispered to no one in particular, "You know she's mad when she
      takes the Bunny's name in vain."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What else would I expect from a teacher who gets his kicks from
      wrapping little babies like him around his finger? I bet you've
      even convinced yourself that this whole evil-teacher persona is for
      some dark, nefarious purpose as if being here and being a huge
      <em class="calibre7">jerk</em>", she stamped her foot down to punctuate the word,
      "is somehow a more effective means of getting what you want!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She gestured aggressively to her friends, "You are privy to a
      great becoming, but you recognize nothing! You are an ant in the
      afterbirth, a slug in the sun. It is in your nature to do one thing
      correctly: tremble. You live your whole life in fear, trembling at
      what you know to come, running away, always running. But dread it,
      run from it, death comes all the same. And you're just… sad! You're
      a sad, dying old man, and no one has loved you, no one will ever
      love you, and no matter how hard you try, you're going to die a
      stupid, cruel, pointless death <strong class="calibre9">just like the rest of
      them!</strong> You'll keep fighting it, and fighting it, and
      fighting it, and fighting it, you'll keep spinning stories to make
      yourself feel better and give some sense of meaning to your
      stupidly short and pointless existence, and it's not going to make
      one bit of difference! You were born too soon, you aren't one of
      the lucky ones, and you're going to <strong class="calibre9">die here on this stupid
      rock and NOTHING YOU DO IS GOING TO MAKE A SINGLE BIT OF
      DIFFERENCE!</strong>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By the time she had finished, she was positively screaming at
      the top of her lungs. Two birds that were perched on her shoulder
      had gripped the edges of her cloak, lifting it up, creating the
      ominous impression of wings. A single snake, which had wriggled in
      from somewhere, had wrapped half of itself around her arm, and the
      other half was extended in the direction of the Professor, hissing
      menacingly at-</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Was that a BLUE KRAIT?!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor, for his part, waited pleasantly for her to
      finish, with an almost bored, placid smile on his face. "Child,
      I'll think you'll find-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quite unexpectedly, he stuttered on his words. "I think you'll
      find-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think… I… Buh. Buh. Buhhhh."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre9">THUD</strong></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">What.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fluttershy had just knocked out the Defense Professor using her
      words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fluttershy. Had just. Knocked Out. The Defense Professor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">With. Her. Words.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Or, at least, that's what it looked like. It was a coincidence,
      of course. It had to be, right? Harry knew that things like this
      didn't actually happen, that the simplest explanation was most
      likely the true one, that the Professor, although he was looking
      better, was not at 100% and even when he was, he was still prone to
      random fits of catatonia.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And yet, he couldn't deny it. This looked bad.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Meanwhile, Fluttershy spun around and glared at the crowd, the
      fire still dancing angrily in her eyes. "Does anyone else have
      anything mean they want to say?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She surveyed the crowd manically, and a few people nearby
      quickly shook their heads.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's what I thought! Now <strong class="calibre9">hug each other!</strong>"
      She roared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was not a single person in the crowd who would dare defy
      her, and the only noise for a few moments was the sound of robes
      rustling and footsteps falling on the forest floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And say something nice! And mean it!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The crowd erupted into a stilted chorus of well-wishes, and as
      quickly as it had come on, the fire left Fluttershy's eyes, the
      snake wriggled back to wherever it had come from, and the birds had
      dropped her cloak back onto her shoulders.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There. Isn't that better?" She asked, pleasantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The crowd said nothing, absolutely nothing, and no one even
      noticed when the two-hour mark had come and gone. The standard
      mechanism for enforcing forfeiture was an enchantment which caused
      the victim to fall asleep on the spot, but without the Professor's
      conscious magic empowering it, the two-hour mark passed without
      consequence. The scoreboard, however, being powered by a much more
      mundane magic, declared that the game had ended, and the grades for
      all of the students had suddenly flipped to "O" for
      Outstanding.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Normally, this would have been cause for great celebration, but
      the assembled crowd just stared, open-mouthed, at Fluttershy, while
      Hagrid, who had been waiting nearby for security and protection,
      awkwardly collected the Professor in his arms and carried him away
      to the hospital wing.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Internally, the Professor grinned wickedly as he feigned
      unconsciousness. It had been a last minute change of plan, but the
      boy had made an excellent point. He <em class="calibre7">did</em> have a blind spot
      for strategies that involved being "nice".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And that was a mistake he planned to quickly rectify.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
