<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>The Longest Day - The Longest Day Chapter 14: Notes of Confusion, a Harry Potter + My Little Pony Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="The Longest Day"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s14" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 14: Notes of Confusion</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">After a single step into Dumbledore's forbidden chamber, Harry
      shrieked and jumped back and collided with Rainbow Dash, sending
      the two of them down in a heap.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rainbow Dash picked herself up and resumed standing in front of
      the door and glared at Harry. "Hey, watch it!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But Harry's attention was occupied by the gigantic three-headed
      dog which had lunged forward, only to be stopped meters from Harry
      by the chains upon its three collars.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That - that - that - " Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Professor Quirrell said from a ways behind him, "that is
      indeed the usual occupant of that chamber, which is off-limits to
      all students, especially first-years."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's the matter, haven't you ever seen a Cerberus before?"
      Fluttershy whispered, sweetly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"That's not safe even by wizard standards!"</em> Within the
      chamber, the enormous black beast gave a multi-voiced bellow,
      flecks of white saliva flying from three fanged mouths.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell sighed. "It is enchanted not to eat students,
      just spit them back out through the door. Now, boy, how would you
      recommend that we deal with this dangerous creature?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh," Harry stuttered, trying to think over the continued
      roaring of the chamber's guardian. "Uh. If it's like the Cerberus
      from the Muggle legend of Orpheus and Eurydice, then we have to
      sing it to sleep so we can pass..." Harry trailed off as the
      Professor rolled his eyes. "Avada Kedavra. I'm supposed to say
      Avada Kedavra, aren't I?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell grinned, sardonically. "If I am to die today, at least
      I can rest easy knowing that I have finally taught you something
      worthwhile." His eyes trailed over to the collection of
      vibrantly-colored witches, "But as it so happens, you are correct
      in this matter. I suspect that were any harm to come to the
      creature, the Headmaster would be immediately alerted," he
      lied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fluttershy glared at him. "Harm? Why would you want to harm
      him?" She strode confidently over to the creature, who emitted a
      low, rumbling growl.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gee, I wonder why," Harry muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aww, look at you, little guy. You're just a cranky little
      puppy, aren't you? Wouldn't it be nice to just take a little
      cuddly, cozy nap?" The beast cocked its head and then lolled one of
      its tongues lazily as Fluttershy began scratching it underneath a
      chin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uhh, maybe while it's preoccupied with Fluttershy, we should
      just go ahead and scamper right on through that trapdoor,"
      Applejack suggested, clearly eager to move past the room. She
      tiptoed closer, and the dog began to growl with renewed vigor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, no, Applejack. Harry's right. We just need to sing him a
      little lullaby," Fluttershy cooed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, if there's one thing we're really good at, it's launching
      into curiously well-prepared musical numbers at a moment's notice!"
      Pinkie Pie gushed as she wielded a pair of drumsticks which Harry
      had not noticed her removing from her pouch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And at that, the six launched into a curiously well-prepared
      musical number.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's peculiar sense of foreboding seemed to flare, despite
      the jaunty song they were singing about 'hope shining eternal', or
      something like that. Notes of confusions danced in his mind as he
      saw... the Professor tapping his toe? In time with the music?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But what he saw next caused the notes to fold in on themselves.
      They became a fugue, an endlessly rising canon. No longer were they
      notes of confusion. This was a symphony of confusion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor was actually <em class="calibre7">singing along with the
      song.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">What in the name of Merlin's sweating, tangled beard was
      happening?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They reached the crescendo of the song, and each singer repeated
      the final line, "And the future is always bright... when you're
      here with me!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Each singer, including the Professor. And now, apparently, it
      was Harry's turn.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was decidedly not a good singer. And he definitely was not
      used to performing in front of an audience, even if it were a small
      one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The music ground to an abrupt halt as everyone watched Harry
      expectantly, even the Cerberus, who began growling menacingly. It
      took a step forward towards Harry, which was enough to prompt him
      to overcome his stage fright.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And the future is always bright... when you're here with me..."
      he mumbled, atonally.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The music resumed as quickly as it stopped, and the dog began to
      bob its head rhythmically in time with the waning refrains of the
      electric guitars. Harry did not have time to even process or
      question from where they procured their instruments, much less an
      electrical power source in Hogwarts. He merely stared,
      open-mouthed, as its head bobbed slower and slower until it finally
      sagged off to sleep.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What the bloody hell was that?!" Harry shouted, but the troupe
      had already packed away the instruments and were heading down the
      trap door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Better hurry up, slowpoke! Before the big guy wakes up!"
      Rainbow Dash shouted.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Beneath the trapdoor was a gigantic plant, something like an
      enormous dieffenbachia with wide leaves emerging from the central
      stem like a spiral staircase, but darker-colored than a normal
      dieffenbachia, with tendril-like vines emerging from the central
      stem and hanging down. The base spread out wide with bigger leaves
      and tendrils, as though promising to cushion anyone's fall. Beneath
      was another stone chamber like the first, with the same nooks like
      false arched windows, emitting the same grey-blue light.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The obvious thought is to fly down on the broomstick in my
      pouch, or toss something heavy to see if those tendrils are traps,"
      Harry said, peering down. "But I'm guessing you'll say that we just
      walk down the leaves." They certainly looked like they were meant
      to be a spiral staircase.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"After you," said Professor Quirrell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry carefully put a foot down on a leaf and found that it
      indeed supported his weight. Then Harry took a last look around the
      room before departing, to see if there was anything worth
      noticing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, you might want to watch out. That plant in the middle
      there looks an awful lot like a Tartarus Vine." Applejack spoke
      slowly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean like the stuff Goldie Delicious drinks?" Pinkie Pie
      chimed in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Naw, that's Tartan Wine. Tartarus Vine, it's a tricky little
      plant that'll wrap its tendrils around you and drag you down so you
      can't move. The more you struggle, the tighter it'll wrap ya up.
      But there's a little rhyme they taught us, 'Tartarus Vine, Tartarus
      Vine, it's deadly fun, but will sulk in the sun!'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rainbow Dash scoffed. "How tough could one little plant be?" And
      she quickly bound down the verdant staircase. The spiraling leaves
      of the gigantic dieffenbachia felt like forest loam beneath her
      shoes, not as unyielding as concrete, but supporting her weight.
      Harry kept a wary eye on the tendrils, but they remained
      passive.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When she reached the bottom of the leafy spiral staircase, the
      tendrils suddenly whipped out and grasped Rainbow Dash's arms and
      legs. She let out a clipped cry and struggled mightily against
      them. Applejack folded her arms and rolled her eyes, but Harry
      looked panicked. Without really thinking, he trampled down the
      staircase and dived straight into the tendrils, wrapping her in a
      tight embrace.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Listen, Applejack said the more you struggle, the harder it
      will squeeze you. Just be calm!" he shouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How am I supposed to be calm with you shouting at me?!" she
      shouted back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He rolled his eyes, and after a brief struggle, Harry allowed
      himself to go limp. The plant relinquished its grip, and Harry slid
      to the ground with a thud. Rainbow Dash watched, somewhat
      embarrassed, and stopped her own movement, quickly joining Harry on
      the ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Interesting," said Professor Quirrell, as he walked down from
      above, not touching any of the plant's leaves or tendrils. "I
      notice that you seem to have no trouble losing to a plant.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, of course, had you not charged headlong into danger in a
      somewhat foolish fashion, I could have proposed a much simpler
      solution to the problem that would have been far less embarrassing
      for the both of you," he leveled his wand and announced, "<em class="calibre7">Lumos
      Maxima!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The plant shrieked away from the blinding light, whipping and
      flailing in all directions, impotent to try to apprehend any
      potential victims. The rest of the group quickly descended the
      staircase and reached the bottom where Harry and Rainbow Dash were
      staring steadfastly and self-consciously at the floor.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The next chamber was smaller in diameter, with a higher ceiling.
      The light shining out of the arched alcoves was white, instead of
      blue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Around them whizzed hundreds of winged keys, beating frantically
      through the air. After watching for a few seconds, it became clear
      that only a single key was the golden color of a Snitch - though it
      was moving slower than a Snitch in a real Quidditch game.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On the other end of the room was a door containing a large,
      prominent keyhole.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Against the left wall leaned a broomstick, the school's
      workhorse Cleansweep Seven.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor," Harry said, staring up at the clouds and flocks of
      whizzing keys, "you said you would answer my questions. What
      exactly is all this about? If you think you've secured a door so
      that it won't open without a key, you keep the key in a safe place
      and only give a copy to authorized entrants. You don't <em class="calibre7">give the
      key wings</em> and then <em class="calibre7">leave a broomstick propped against the
      wall.</em> So what the heck are we doing in here and what is going
      on? It's an obvious guess that the magic mirror is the only real
      factor guarding the Stone, but why the rest of this - and why
      encourage first-years to come here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am truly not sure," said the Defense Professor. He had
      entered the room and taken up station well to Harry's right,
      maintaining the distance between them. "Dumbledore's way is to do a
      dozen things which seem mad, and then only eight of them, or
      perhaps nine, conceal an inner meaning. My guess is that Dumbledore
      set up this circuitous maze of traps as a means to entrap Lord
      Voldemort and that Dumbledore intends to make it seem like
      Voldemort is invited to send a student as his proxy. Precisely so
      that Lord Voldemort, as Dumbledore conceives of him, is less
      tempted to think himself clever by doing so. Imagine Dumbledore
      first considering the issue of how to ward the Stone. Imagine
      Dumbledore considering whether to set true dangers to guard the
      Mirror. Imagine him imagining some young student blundering through
      those dangers at Voldemort's behest. I think that is what
      Dumbledore is trying to avoid, by making it seem as though that
      strategy is invited, and so not cunning."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned away, looking at the door on the opposite side of
      the room<em class="calibre7">.</em> "My guess is that the intended solution for
      first-years is to ignore the broomstick and use <em class="calibre7">Wingardium
      Leviosa</em> to grab the key since this isn't a Quidditch game and
      there are no rules forbidding that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, well are there any rules forbidding <em class="calibre7">this?"</em>
      Rainbow Dash shouted as she grabbed the broomstick and shot off
      into the air after the erstwhile key.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course she'd do that." Applejack drawled, smiling despite
      her vague annoyance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned to the Professor, eyes rolling. "Don't you have
      some absurdly overpowered spell you could unleash on this one?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a brief silence but for the whizzing of keys and
      Rainbow Dash deftly darting back and forth in the air. That silence
      was punctuated by occasional gasps of joy from Pinkie Pie, who was
      thoroughly enjoying the proceedings.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took several steps away from Professor Quirrell. "I
      probably shouldn't have said that, should I?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, no," Professor Quirrell said. "I think that is a quite
      reasonable thing to say to the most powerful wizard you know when
      he is standing not a dozen paces from you." He put his wand back
      into the sleeve of his other hand and smiled placidly. "As it so
      happens, I'm aware of several rituals of ill-repute that would
      demolish this door along with whatever lies behind it. But all
      things considered, I think it safer to simply perform the tasks as
      intended."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As if on command, Rainbow Dash issued a loud "Whoop!" and
      shouted, "Got it!" She deftly floated down to the ground, key
      triumphantly in hand, and made her way swiftly to the door. She
      looked backward expectantly as she unlocked it and moved on to the
      next chamber.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stepped over the threshold of the heavy door and gazed at
      a chessboard of magnificent, wizard-sized chess-pieces. The
      alternating tiles of black and white marble on the floor started
      five meters after the doorway, and extended from wall to wall, but
      stopped five meters short of the next door on the opposite side of
      the room. The ceiling was significantly higher than any of the
      statues should have been able to reach.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would guess," Harry said, "that the intended solution is to
      fly over the statues using the broomstick from the previous room
      since it wasn't actually needed to get the key?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rainbow Dash held her fists on her hips, "Um, excuse me, but who
      actually <em class="calibre7">got the key</em> for you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor looked up and spoke, eyes never returning to
      Harry. "I suppose <em class="calibre7">she</em> could try that. But what of the rest
      of you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "And I assume that if we try to simply cross the
      board, these pieces would somehow forcibly prevent us from doing
      so?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quite right."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pawn to D4!" Pinkie Pie interrupted, who had clambered atop the
      bishop next to the queen, causing the massive pawn to dutifully
      scoot two squares forward.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The other witches watched Pinkie, interested, but only Harry was
      a tiny bit skeptical. He turned to Rarity, who was closest to him.
      "I'm assuming she's a prodigy at chess, the same way she seems to
      be a prodigy at everything else?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rarity shrugged. "I suppose we'll see, won't we? As for me, I
      just can't get over the tacky aesthetic. You have all the options
      in the world available to you, and someone decided to go with...
      <em class="calibre7">Baroque</em>," she spat with a shudder on the final word.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Their conversation was cut short by the grinding sound of the
      black pawn in front of the king's bishop moved ahead two squares.
      It was one thing to watch a chess game from above, even Wizard's
      Chess, played out with pieces no larger than a finger. But seeing
      pieces twice his size carved of what appeared to be pure stone
      suddenly seemed to be much more intimidating.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pinkie Pie slapped the crown of the bishop and shouted with
      maniacal glee: "To G5!" and with that, her bishop slid immediately
      to the right of the newly moved black pawn.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uhh, I don't know a TON about chess, but that seems to leave
      you a bit... vulnerable."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"HA! I eat danger for breakfast!" Pinkie Pie shouted in a sort
      of reverie.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, that sounds like something I would say. Stop stealing my
      lines!" Rainbow Dash protested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As if to answer Harry's perceived threat, the pawn in front of
      the king side's rook moved forward a square, putting Pinkie in
      imminent danger of being captured.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But maybe I'll save this danger for lunch," Pinkie backtracked.
      "Retreat! To G4!" and she moved diagonally backward one square.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"See, now you've lost tempo," Harry chastised, as the pawn in
      front of the king's knight moved forward two squares, once again
      putting her in danger of capture.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Brave Dame Pinkie ran away, bravely ran away, away! When
      danger reared its ugly head, she bravely turned her tail and fled,
      brave, brave, brave, brave Dame Pinkie!</em>" she sang. "To
      D3!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And she scooted backward and to the right, apparently safe from
      imminent danger. But Harry was quite concerned by this point; she
      had given up two turns of board development. He leaned in toward
      the Professor, "What happens if she loses?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He shrugged. "I suppose she would be knocked unconscious and the
      hospital wing would be alerted. But you should pay closer
      attention: even our pink-haired friend seems to know when it is
      appropriate to yield, to lose." He inclined his head as the first
      black pawn scooted ahead to F4, putting her in danger once
      again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">She was not in the least bit scared to be mashed into a
      pulp. Or to have her eyes gouged out, and her elbows broken! To
      have her kneecaps split and her body burned away, and her limbs all
      hacked and mangled, brave Dame Pinkie!</em> Pawn to E3!" Rather
      than move out of danger, she sent her queen's pawn ahead two
      places.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"WHAT ARE YOU DOING?!" Harry shouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She's safe, boy, now do be quiet. This game is fascinating."
      The Professor hushed him sternly. "Observe: were the pawn to take
      the bishop, the queen would be free to check the king. And
      now..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The black pawn on the farthest right of the board moved forward
      one space, cutting off the angle of attack from the queen, who
      would now be claimed by the rook were she to move to that
      position.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Join me, fellow bishop! To D3!" And the king's bishop moved up,
      two squares in front of the white queen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The black rook moved ahead two places, and Pinkie began to
      cackle maniacally. "Queen to H5! Toro, toro, toro!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor and Harry both watched as the Queen suddenly
      sprang into lifelike action, the liquid form of her stone moving as
      sleekly as a human being. She pulled a pair of daggers from the
      folds of her robes and eviscerated the black pawn who stood in her
      way. Brilliant red gems sprayed forth from the wound, prompting
      Rarity to shout with joy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What perfect specimens! Hand me that broom!" She took the broom
      from Rainbow Dash and delicately mounted the broomstick, flying
      awkwardly over to the ever-growing piled of glittering rubies that
      were leaking from the now-deceased pawn. But she barely had to
      swoop down to grab a handful as the black rook that was now
      directly in front of the white queen pulled an ax from behind its
      back and unceremoniously beheaded her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pinkie continued to cackle as red rubies shot violently into the
      air from the stump that once contained the white queen's stone
      head, splattering in several directions. The Professor was
      chuckling, and Harry first assumed it was due to the sight of
      several rubies pelting Rarity and almost causing her to fall off
      her broom. But he continued to smile dryly, even as Rarity escaped
      to safety.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pinkie's laugh became darker and more ominous, and she held her
      fists in the air and looked up to the sky. Then, she stopped
      abruptly and looked toward the Professor. "What do you think of my
      'evil villain' laugh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He bowed slightly to her, "Appropriately over the top. A
      masterful game, if I do say so myself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks! Bishop to G6!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't even register that it was a checkmate until the
      black king dropped the sword from its hand, and toppled over. Then,
      like dominos, the remaining black pieces toppled over one by one,
      clearing the way to the next chamber.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pinkie casually leaped from the bishop as the Professor
      continued his praise, "An excellent turnabout, the Dutch Defense
      into Hopton Attack..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is that what that was?" Pinkie asked, sincerely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So... how long have you played chess for?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, this was my second game! So fun! You first!" Pinkie was
      already bouncing ethereally off towards Harry and gestured to the
      next chamber, prompting a cock of the Professor's eyebrow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah... that's Pinkie Pie, for you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor nodded. "She could prove quite useful, hm?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She already has," Harry said as he strode towards the door.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Half a second later, Harry slammed the door and leaped back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It took Harry several seconds to master his breathing and master
      himself. From behind the door came continued loud bellows, and
      great slams as of a rock club pounding the floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose," Harry said, "that since Dumbledore would hardly put
      a real mountain troll in there, the next challenge is an illusion
      of my worst memories. Like a Dementor, with the memory projected
      into the outside world. Very amusing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell advanced himself toward the door, and Harry
      stepped well aside. Professor Quirrell swung open the door and
      looked in. "Hm," Professor Quirrell said. "Just the troll, as you
      say? Ah, well. I had hoped to learn something about you more
      interesting than that. What lies within is a Kokorhekkus<em class="calibre7">,</em>
      also known as the common boggart."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A boggart? What does that - no, I suppose I know what it
      does."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A boggart," Professor Quirrell said, and now his voice was
      again that of a Hogwarts Professor lecturing, "gravitates to dark
      enclosures that are rarely opened, such as a neglected cupboard in
      the attic. It seeks to be left alone, and it will manifest in
      whatever form it thinks will scare you away."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Scare me away?" Harry said. "I <em class="calibre7">killed</em> the troll."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You leaped backward out of the room without thinking. A boggart
      seeks out the instinctive flinch, not the reasoned threat. Else it
      would have selected something more believable. In any case, my
      standard counter-Charm for a boggart is, of course, one of the
      aforementioned absurdly overpowered spells, the name of which I
      will not utter here. But a less horrific counter-measure is simply
      laughter. I suggest we find someone whose fear takes a slightly
      less menacing form so that we can more easily summon up the proper
      state of mind."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Without a beat, five of the witches said in unison,
      "Rarity."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her eyes went wide. "No," and she took a step back. "Please,
      don't make me. I've seen too many horrors! Don't make me do it!"
      she cried dramatically, almost hyperventilating while fanning
      herself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rainbow Dash and Applejack could barely stifle a giggle. "Go on,
      Rarity!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was nonplussed. He didn't doubt when she said she had seen
      horrors, and he wondered why the others were being so cavalier.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine! If I must. I do what I must, for my friends," she took a
      deep, steadying breath, marched herself towards the door, flung it
      open, and proceeded to shriek. She took several steps backward,
      panting. Harry could briefly see the outline of a mirror beyond the
      doorstep.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, what was it, Rare?" Applejack asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She... she... she was wearing purple socks... with a BURGUNDY
      DRESS!" Rarity collapsed into a sobbing heap.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A burgundy what, now?" Applejack moved a bit closer to the
      door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rarity looked up from the ground, vaguely annoyed that no one
      was as horrified as she. "Purple and burgundy, darlings! The same
      color family!" and she shrieked again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Applejack could now fully see the reflection beyond the door,
      and could no longer stifle her giggle. She began to laugh in full
      force. The others moved closer as well and joined Applejack in her
      laughter as they observed a reflection of Rarity dressed in the
      most garish dress of an almost-eggplant hue, combined with a
      hideous pair of striped, neon purple socks. To top it all off, on
      top of her head was a hat crafted of pure absurdity, with a stuffed
      vulture perched on top. As the laughter grew louder, the mirror
      developed a thin, spiderweb matrix of cracks across its
      surface.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The color combination is truly atrocious, I agree." The
      Professor remarked dryly, causing Harry to also giggle. This
      appeared to be the final straw for the mirror-Boggart as it
      shattered into countless thousands of pieces onto the floor, all of
      which sprouted tiny feet and retreated into an unseen corner with a
      single squeak, and then nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They advanced into the boggart's former room, Professor Quirrell
      going first this time. With both the troll and the mirror gone, the
      room was just another huge chamber lit by sconces of cold blue
      light.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell's gaze seemed distant, thoughtful. He crossed
      the room without waiting for Harry, and swung open the door on the
      opposite wall of his own accord.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry followed after, and not closely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The next chamber contained a cauldron, a rack of bottled
      ingredients, chopping boards, stirring sticks, and the other
      apparatus of Potions. The light coming from the arched alcoves was
      white instead of blue, presumably because color vision was
      important to Potions-brewing. Professor Quirrell was already
      standing next to the brewing apparatus, scrutinizing a long
      parchment he had picked up. The door to the next chamber was
      guarded by a curtain of purple fire which looked quite
      threatening.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's suspension of disbelief had already checked out on
      vacation at this point, so he didn't say anything about how
      real-world security systems had the goal of <em class="calibre7">distinguishing</em>
      authorized from unauthorized personnel, which meant issuing
      challenges that behaved <em class="calibre7">differently</em> around people who were
      or weren't supposed to be there. For example, a <em class="calibre7">good</em>
      security challenge would be testing whether the entrant knew a lock
      combination that only authorized people had been told, and a
      <em class="calibre7">bad</em> security challenge would be testing whether the
      entrant could brew a potion according to written instructions that
      had been helpfully included.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell tossed the parchment toward Harry, and it
      fluttered to the ground between them. "What do you make of this?"
      said Professor Quirrell, who then stepped back so that Harry could
      come forward and pick up the parchment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope," Harry said after skimming the parchment. "Testing
      whether the entrant can solve a ridiculously straightforward logic
      puzzle about the order of the ingredients is still not a challenge
      that behaves differently for authorized and unauthorized personnel.
      It doesn't matter if you use a more interesting logic puzzle about
      three idols or a line of people wearing colored hats, you're still
      completely missing the point."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look at the other side," said Professor Quirrell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned over the two-foot parchment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On the other side, written in tiny letters, was the
      <em class="calibre7">longest</em> list of brewing instructions Harry had ever seen.
      "What on Earth-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A <em class="calibre7">potion of effulgence,</em> to quench the purple fire,"
      Professor Quirrell said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is made by adding the same ingredients, over and over again,
      in slightly different ways. Imagine some eager young group of
      first-years, passing all the other chambers, thinking they are just
      about to reach the magic mirror, and then encountering this task.
      This room is the handiwork of the Potions Master indeed," Professor
      Quirrell said, once more looking thoughtful. "Snape is not a
      bystander in this game, not quite. He lacks Dumbledore's
      intelligence, but possesses the killing intent that Dumbledore
      never had."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, whatever's going on here, it doesn't actually keep out
      children," Harry observed. "Lots of first-years made it through.
      And if you can somehow keep out everyone <em class="calibre7">except</em> children,
      then that, from Dumbledore's perspective, forces Lord Voldemort to
      possess a child to enter. I don't see the point, given their
      goals."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed," Professor Quirrell said, rubbing the bridge of his
      nose. "But see, boy, this room lacks the triggers and tripsigns
      that are upon the others. There are no subtle wards to be defeated.
      It is as if Lord Voldemort is <em class="calibre7">invited</em> to bypass the Potion
      and simply enter - but Snape knows that Lord Voldemort will
      perceive this. If in fact there was a trap laid for anyone who did
      not brew the potion, then it would be wiser to lay wards, and give
      no sign that this room was different from the others."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry listened, frowning in concentration. "So... the only point
      of leaving off the detection webs is to make someone <em class="calibre7">not</em>
      bulldoze this room."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I expect Snape expects Voldemort to deduce that as well," the
      Defense Professor said. "And past that point I cannot predict at
      what level he thinks an intruder will play. I am patient, and I
      have given myself plenty of time for this endeavor. But Snape knows
      Lord Voldemort. He has sometimes seen Lord Voldemort shriek in
      frustration, and act on impulses that appear counterproductive.
      Consider this matter from Snape's perspective: it is the Potions
      Master of Hogwarts telling Lord Voldemort to be patient and follow
      instructions if he wants to enter, as though Lord Voldemort were a
      mere schoolboy..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what then?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We do what Lord Voldemort would not: we follow the instructions
      to the letter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And with that, Harry began to brew.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
