<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>The Longest Day - The Longest Day Chapter 18: Father and Son, a Harry Potter + My Little Pony Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="The Longest Day"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s18" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 18: Father and Son</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">"It was foolish of you to come here tonight, Tom." Dumbledore
      intoned, gravely. "The Aurors are on their way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A glowing green, circular geometric pattern around Dumbledore's
      right fist was fading imperceptibly from the air as he shifted his
      wand into a defensive position.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"By which time I shall be gone, and you shall be dead,"
      Voldemort's hiss grew into that of malevolent laughter. "You have
      lost, old man. You have been banished and yet you wander back, like
      a dumb animal that cannot understand it is being sent away. You
      have lost, you have lost the boy, and you have lost the Stone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think you will find, Tom, that the stone in your possession
      is far from singular." Dumbledore clenched his fist and in a flash
      of blue light, he disappeared into what seemed to be some sort of
      portal, reappearing an instant later amid the Death Eaters, less
      than an arm's span from Draco and Lucius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He began to address them, "Many of you I know, and yet there are
      some I do not. Many of you, I am not surprised to see here, and yet
      there are some of you whose presence causes me great sadness. Hear
      me now: you are no longer bound by your Dark Marks; for the first
      time in a great while, you are truly free to make a choice. Either
      flee now or fight by my side. But no mercy will be given to those
      who ally with this tyrant."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As he spoke, there were a handful of dull pops as former Death
      Eaters disappeared, and upon seeing an apparent lack of
      consequences, the cracks of Apparition grew more frequent, like
      popping corn on a stove.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore extended his wrist towards Draco, upon which was a
      curious golden bracelet. Draco looked down at the pair of sparkling
      gems, one emerald-green, and the other an electric blue, embedded
      in the Bracelet, and he seemed to understand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The unlikely friend who has tempted the one marked by
      lightning... must bring the stone through the gate thrown open by
      the one who is Bound by the Dark Lord.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He placed the orange gem that Bellatrix had handed him moments
      before, into an empty slot on the bracelet, causing the air to
      crackle with multi-colored electricity. Dumbledore nodded, his eyes
      still on Lord Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort, for his part, observed the exodus without comment,
      using the time to build up a variety of shields around himself and
      to prepare the battleground in ways that would be fractionally more
      favorable to his preferred style of combat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry couldn't count the number of Death Eaters who had fled,
      but he reckoned that two-thirds of them still remained. Of those,
      roughly half slowly changed the direction of their wands from Harry
      to Voldemort. Cynically, Harry wondered how many of them were truly
      glad to be free of the Dark Lord, versus simply making the snap
      decision to publically support whoever they felt had with the
      greatest chance of victory. The Dementors, for their part, floated
      warily above, no longer assured of the dominance of the one who had
      commanded them not moments before.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Without warning, Voldemort viciously whipped his wand, causing
      Dumbledore to do the same, the force of which cast Harry backwards
      out of the line of fire, and the rancor began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A jet of green fire erupted from Voldemort's wand, which was met
      with equal ferocity by a brilliant, crimson Phoenix-fire from
      Dumbledore. The two magicks collided with each other in midair and
      Dumbledore and Voldemort slowly circled each other, sizing up the
      situation, determining what to do next. Electricity crackled around
      them as they attempted to overpower the other's magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Death Eater had turned upon Death Eater, firing curses of all
      varieties, including wordless and wandless, at each other. Lucius,
      who had now recovered, was dueling with Lord Jugson, who levied
      vile, contemptible swears at Draco's father.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jugson was, at first, a vision of pure offensive power. He fired
      curse after curse, putting no effort whatsoever into the creation
      of any shield. The intensity of the onslaught forced Lucius into a
      defensive position. His first shield was hastily assembled, and
      inefficient. He lost time and had to make it up. Not seconds into
      the fight and he was already backpedaling, without a chance to even
      fire a counter curse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jugson pressed the advantage. Sensing the lack of counterattack,
      he took his focus away from enhancing his physical maneuvers and
      poured everything into the ensemble of curses. Lucius threw up a
      Prismatic Wall, to give himself about a second and a half to levy a
      counter. A ten-foot-wide burst of flame shot from Malfoy's wand,
      quickly followed by a cloud of needles three times the size. There
      was nowhere for Jugson to dodge, he could only counter or
      shield.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius prepared for both; he sent forth a brute force volley of
      multiple weak physical attacks; it was a minimal expenditure of
      magic, and it would not do much if it actually landed, but it was
      enough to severely weaken most shields. At the same time, he loosed
      an ice blast, in the event that Jugson opted for an elemental
      counter to the fire: ice trumps water trumps fire. Finally, he
      prepared a single concentrated lance, in case Jugson tried a purely
      magical hard counter. Such a counter would need to be an applied
      area of magic, which would be easily penetrated by a directed
      burst.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jugson indeed used the elemental counter, and his wall of water
      was quickly frozen by Lucius' blast of ice. But Jugson had
      anticipated this and directed a flow of magic into the wall of ice
      to lend it a measure of permanency. The now-physical barrier
      blocked the volley of blows intended to weaken a magical shield,
      and it trivially absorbed the impact of the lance. Jugson had the
      initiative now and used it to withdraw his magic from the wall and
      turn it inward, rupturing it from the inside out and send an
      explosion of knife-sharp ice crystals towards the Malfoys.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco had the good sense to get out the way, scrambling low,
      across the length of the graveyard to Harry, knowing that he was
      hopelessly outmatched. "Harry, <em class="calibre7">what the hell is
      happening?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked back towards the five witches who still stood, held
      hostage by the knives floating at their throats, and the supine,
      breathing form of Hermione Granger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quirrell. He was Voldemort, this whole time. He resurrected
      Hermione... and I... I helped him retrieve the Philosopher's Stone.
      He also seemed to have defeated Dumbledore earlier but-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A stray curse from the Death Eater known as Mister Ferret
      narrowly missed Draco and collided with the ruined body of Quirinus
      Quirrell, causing it to violently rupture, the contents of his
      cloak and vest spreading across the battlefield.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another curse flew by, causing Draco to reflexively cast
      <em class="calibre7">Prismatis</em>, and hurl himself to the ground to avoid it.
      Mister Ferret charged down the length of the graveyard and picked
      up Draco off the ground. "Disgusting, money-grubbing, power-hungry
      filth," he hissed in a low voice, his tongue darting out of his
      mouth and wetting his lips. "I knew your family was a pack of
      pretenders, no matter how complete the act."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mister Ferret had jabbed his wand viciously into Draco's
      forehead. "I could tell you some stories about your father that
      could curl even your greasy hair, boy!" He grabbed Draco's hair at
      the base of his scalp, his wand still jammed into his flesh. Draco
      could feel a bruise forming from the pressure. "I give you this one
      chance, renounce your wretched family and join us, or you and your
      precious father will die!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Out of the corner of Lucius' eye, he saw his son being
      threatened, and with a desperate roar, twisted his wand and cast a
      volley of wind outward. Its effect was not intended to be deadly,
      merely distracting, and it achieved its purpose. Jugson was cast
      back several feet and had to whip his wand in different directions
      the dispel the gusts. Lucius wasted no time in spinning around,
      running towards his endangered child.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Make your choice, now!" Mister Ferret shrieked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco said nothing as he watched his father draw closer, hurling
      curse after curse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius was at quite a disadvantage, Draco knew. His position as
      second-in-command made him more of a target than many of the other
      Death Eaters, and so his attention was partially occupied by
      fending off stray curses that were hurled in his direction. But
      perhaps more importantly so was that Lucius could not shoot to
      kill; he could not risk the chance of a fatal missed curse striking
      his son instead of Barty Crouch Jr., the man also known as Mister
      Ferret.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As such, what happened next should have come as little
      surprise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Caught between ducking underneath a slow-moving jet of green
      light, swatting away a Slow Blade of Unusually Specific
      Destruction, and aiming a particularly vicious, albeit
      non-life-threatening charm at his son's captor's arm, Lucius was
      ill-poised to avoid the wide area-of-effect Severing Charm that
      Crouch had leveled in his direction at roughly head-level.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It is often said that time seems to slow down as a tragedy is
      about to occur, but this is false knowledge carried on by fools and
      those with a penchant for the dramatic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was no drawn-out cry, no outstretched arms, no screams of
      "NOOOOOO". There was only the grim smile of satisfaction on
      Crouch's face and the momentary look of surprise on Lucius Malfoy's
      as his head and the better part of this right shoulder took their
      leave of the rest of his body.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Blood poured out in liters, and Lucius dropped to the ground
      immediately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">This is a dream.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">This is a horrible, awful nightmare that I'll wake up from
      any second now.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco's thoughts barely registered the vicious backhand across
      his face delivered by Crouch, which cast him face-down into the
      damp earth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Wake up, Draco.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Get up, wake up, get out of bed and find Father and hug him
      as tight as you can.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">His hands moved of their own accord, blindly on the ground,
      trying to find a dry patch of ground by which to lift his body
      upwards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Give Mother a hug as well. Oh, Mother, what would she say?
      Poor Mother, her life had only just returned to her.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was on his knees at this point, his hands still trying to
      find purchase, slipping on the bloodied leaves below. Draco fell
      back to the ground, his arms outstretched amidst the scattered
      remains of Professor Quirrell's body and possessions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Aunt Bella, what would Aunt Bella say?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Barty Crouch looked down disdainfully and began to focus his
      attention on aiming a curse at Goyle Sr., who was dueling with
      Crabbe Sr. with tears in his eyes. If Malfoy and Jugson's battle
      had been a chess match, Crabbe and Goyle's was a fistfight. There
      was no elegance, no levels upon levels of moves, counters,
      counter-counters, contingencies or gambits. It was a knock-down,
      drag-out battle of who could out-magic the other. The simply fired
      curse after curse into each other, both opting for the pure
      brute-force approach. They were swapping shield-and-curse
      combinations ruthlessly, and one of them would eventually
      break.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco's arms flailed blindly on the ground, swatting aside a
      necklace, a chunk of bone, a sparkling diadem, a gun-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A gun.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It felt good in Draco's hand. Cold, but powerful. Heavy, for its
      size. Dimly, he recalled Harry describing the function of these
      devices with stark simplicity: point, shoot, kill.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">It's just a dream. Just a dream.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco pointed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It caught the attention of Barty Crouch, who did not fully
      comprehend the threat of the object posed, as it was nothing more
      than a cheap Muggle toy. Crouch was a wizard, he had a wand, what
      use did he have for such trinkets? "And what do you plan to-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco shot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A deafening crash drowned out by the din of battle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A red mist of gore and brain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's eyes wide with horror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Yet another body falling to the ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">It's just a dream, this isn't real. You didn't kill him, you
      banished a nightmare.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco sleepwalked through the crowd, identifying those who were
      still fighting on the side of Lord Voldemort. As it so happened, a
      Muggle firearm was a remarkably effective tool in a magical
      firefight. The overwhelming majority of curses were slow-moving,
      relatively speaking, and those that had physical form were often
      heavy and large.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Although there were a few spells particularly adept at halting
      extremely small, extremely fast-moving projectiles, none of them
      had much practical application in any of the standard Battle Magic
      scenarios, and as such, none were in use this evening.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco was not a trained marksman. Several of his shots missed
      their mark by a wide margin. But enough hit. Crabbe Sr.'s eyes went
      wide as a bullet found its way into his kidney, causing him to
      bleed out slowly from the hole. Lord Jugson's lurched forward after
      catching a bullet to the shoulder, allowing him to be stunned by
      the two wizards he was dueling simultaneously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And in the meantime... If Malfoy and Jugson's duel was a chess
      match and Crabbe and Goyle's was a fistfight, the duel between
      Albus Dumbledore and Lord Voldemort was… There was no comparison.
      It was like watching a gunfight where the combatants were shooting
      each others' bullets out of midair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was an exercise in horrifically brutal efficiency. Shields
      were raised on a millisecond by millisecond basis, using no more
      magic than absolutely necessary. And they were dismantled just as
      swiftly, analyzed for their weak points and ruthlessly
      dispatched.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The physical element was equally impressive. There were no
      unnecessary flourishes or wasted movements. Just pure reaction time
      and power, traded back and forth. Several loyal Death Eaters
      replenished Voldemort's magic with their own, bolstered his
      shields, and subtly manipulated the territory to their
      advantage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Dumbledore was <em class="calibre7">still</em> winning. Perhaps more
      specifically, <em class="calibre7">the Elder Wand</em> was still winning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Just a dream, Draco. Just a dream. There is no victor, no
      vanquished... 'Listen to the wind blow, down comes the
      night'</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco collapsed over the severed head of his father, desperately
      whispering the words to the Ritual of Forbearance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Magic flowed forth as the head of Lucius Malfoy began to
      contort, and change in color to a pale green. Corban Yaxley had
      backed into Draco while fending off an attack from one of the
      defectors that Draco didn't recognize. Almost as an afterthought,
      Draco jammed the gun upwards against the small of Yaxley's back and
      pulled the trigger several times. Only one shot rang out before the
      pistol simply 'clicked' instead of firing, but one shot was enough.
      Yaxley fell to the ground, his spinal column shattered by the
      force.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Just a dream. He's not dead. He's not dead. 'Run in the
      shadows, damn your love, damn your lies.'</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Voldemort and Dumbledore, this was their fault. Their
      decades-long power struggle that never failed to leave Malfoy
      bodies in its wake. 'Break the silence, damn the dark, damn the
      light'</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Transfiguration has been complete; Lucius' head was
      transformed into an ornate jade snake (a blue krait, of course).
      Oblivious to the battle around him, Draco whispered the last words
      of the Ritual, "<em class="calibre7">If I don't love you now, I shall never love you
      again, you shall forever hear me say, I will never break the
      chain."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">A dull reverberation of Magic echoed throughout the graveyard,
      something that those who had been raised with the old ways had been
      trained to notice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As if waiting for this moment, Dumbledore turned his attention
      from Lord Voldemort, cracking his wand outward with a roar,
      striking out at the remaining loyal servants, binding them,
      allowing the defectors to strike their final blows and end the
      melee decisively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And in this moment of distraction, Voldemort poured all of his
      fury into a volley of curses that Dumbledore would have had
      difficulty repelling even if he had been fully focused on the Dark
      Lord.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As it were, Dumbledore was not. And one of the curses struck him
      squarely in the chest, and he was blasted backwards onto the
      ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort wasted no time surveying the situation; his loyal
      Death Eaters had been defeated, and a handful of defectors
      remained. Although he knew he would have no trouble defeating the
      remaining foes, he didn't have time for that. He needed to make
      sure Dumbledore was truly defeated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But he also understood the value of fear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He drew himself up to his full height, and turned towards the
      remaining wizards, brandishing his wand, preparing to engage them
      in a battle that they knew they would decisively lose, especially
      given the fact that Dumbledore now lay spread-eagle on the
      ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And so they quickly Apparated away, leaving standing only the
      Dark Lord, Harry, Draco, and the collection of out-of-place witches
      who impassively observed the fighting with knives at their
      throats.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort quickly strode over to where Dumbledore lay and saw
      that he was still conscious, although his wand had clattered
      several feet away. The Dark Lord hissed with venomous rage, "I had
      always said if I found myself in this position, that I would end my
      foe without wasting a moment of time. And yet, I find myself
      overcome with curiosity... <em class="calibre7">What do you have to say for
      yourself, you old fool?!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As he spoke, he brought his wand closer and closer to
      Dumbledore's chest, who struggled to speak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You... You should have aimed for the wand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore snapped his fingers on his right hand as Voldemort
      drove his wand downward. The Dark Lord's eyes went wide as his wand
      did not meet a corporeal body as expected, but instead passed
      through and was driven straight into the ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Where Dumbledore's form had once been, there was now nothing.
      And the gem-studded bracelet that had once been upon his right
      wrist was instead worn by a small, pale-violet dog with green ears
      hair atop its head, who wasted no time in darting across the
      battlefield.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
