<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>The Longest Day - The Longest Day Chapter 2: Reflections, a Harry Potter + My Little Pony Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="The Longest Day"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 2: Reflections</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">CHORUS:</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Oh, I'm all alone now No love to shield me</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Trapped in a world That's a distorted reality</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Happiness you took from me</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">And left me alone With only memories</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">SHADOW:</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">How lucky am I to have something that makes saying goodbye
      so hard?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Sunlight and Shadow", by S. Leigh, as staged in the 1981
      Diagon Alley Production</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Sometime</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It had been days. It had been weeks. It had been years. The flow
      of time, without a fixed point of reference, had little
      meaning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She had deduced a few things by this point. When she was alive,
      Harry had recommended that she read a book by an American professor
      entitled Gödel, Escher, Bach. It was long, it was obtuse, but it
      was a book, nonetheless. It took roughly four read-throughs before
      she was relatively confident that she had the majority of it
      memorized.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When she "read" the book now, it appeared precisely as her mind
      remembered it. There was no way of independently confirming whether
      the wording was exact, whether she misplaced a preposition here or
      there or swapped out one synonym for another. Her mind simply
      decided on a value, filled it in, and that was that. She mulled
      over a particular passage from page 3 of the preface:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The Gödelian strange loop that arises in formal systems in
      mathematics (i.e. collections of rules for churning out an endless
      series of mathematical truths solely by mechanical symbol-shunting
      without any regard to meanings or ideas hidden in the shapes being
      manipulated) is a loop that allows such a system to "perceive
      itself", to talk about itself, to become "self-aware", and in a
      sense it would not be going too far to say that by virtue of having
      such a loop, a formal system <strong class="calibre9">acquires a
      soul.</strong></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was quite certain of her original theory, that her mind was
      nothing more than a formal system, a collection of rules and data
      for churning out an endless series of output solely by
      symbol-shunting. Both her past and present consciousness was
      tangible face-value evidence that this formal system had looped
      upon itself and was capable of self-perception, talking about
      itself, becoming self-aware, and ipso facto, having a soul. That
      formal system being physically manifest gave her "soul" a means of
      interacting with other similar patterns, but it was not strictly
      necessary, just as how a blackboard was not strictly necessary for
      the Fibonacci sequence to exist i<em class="calibre7">n concept.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">So she had deduced that she was an isolated strange loop,
      persisting on in a purely conceptual capacity, fated (or doomed) to
      continue persisting on forever. When she had come to that
      conclusion, she had despaired for a few brief moments, because it
      really did seem like quite a bleak future, not just for her, but
      for others as well, others who might not be able to entertain
      themselves as effectively as she could.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But she quickly came to another conclusion based on one simple
      observation: <em class="calibre7">she still remembered</em>. She remembered quite
      clearly the chain of events leading from her death until the
      present moment. The end result of her exile could not be mere
      oblivion, due to the simple fact that she was present, remembering,
      conscious after a fashion. If that were a possible end to this
      scenario, why would she be remembering <em class="calibre7">now</em>?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was also quite certain that the end result of this was not
      eternity, either. Although it needed no outside input to function,
      per se, her mind as-is was a finite structure with a finite data
      set upon which could be operated with a fixed set of rules. If she
      persisted long enough, something had to give. Regardless of how
      efficiently she could write memories, at some point, there was a
      hard stop. As of the present moment, she had clearly not
      overwritten the memories of her own death, nor had she done so with
      her initial exploration of this conceptual afterlife.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At that moment, she decided that she never would. She committed
      herself to the following course of action: if that time ever came,
      if she continued to fall and reached that sudden stop, she would
      not overwrite these memories. She would not overwrite any memories.
      She would remember.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She produced an empty book with an arbitrarily large number of
      pages, and on the cover scrawled the title: "The Diary of Hermione
      Granger", and began writing down her thoughts as she could remember
      them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"It had been days. It had been weeks. It has been years. The
      flow of time, without a fixed point of reference, has little
      meaning.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I have deduced a few things by this point. When I was alive,
      Harry recommended that I read a book by an American
      professor...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">...and I began writing down my thoughts as I can remember
      them.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">By committing myself so, my internment here has only two
      possible ends: escape, or oblivion.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">And since I already know that it cannot end in oblivion,
      there is only one realistic possibility to consider.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I am going to escape.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">And I have a pretty good idea of who is going to help
      me."</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">May 13, 1992</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Diffindo!" Harry had aimed at a branch this time, and it
      plummeted to the ground with a sound of twigs and leaves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There didn't seem to be any tears inside him, only pressure with
      no outlet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I shall leave you to it," Professor Quirrell said quietly. The
      Defense Professor rose from his tree stump, the unicorn's blood
      still moonlit on the black cloak he wore and drew his hood back
      over his head. He began back to where he had left the unicorn in a
      state of near-death. It had not died in the drinking, Harry's
      interference had seen to that. Quirrell had torn a large chunk from
      its side, carefully choosing the location so as to present the best
      possibility of incapacitating the beast without killing it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He reached the rotten log against which he had left the unicorn.
      Good news, bad news, good news. Good news: the unicorn was still
      alive. Bad news: the unicorn was no longer where he had left it.
      Good news: there was a telltale trail of blood smeared across the
      ground, leading twenty or thirty meters in the direction of the
      castle. Smiling, Quirrell followed the trail, and found the
      unicorn, laboriously dragging its broken body across the ground,
      trying in vain (but trying nonetheless) to escape.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So nice to see you again, my little unicorn." Quirrell grinned
      wickedly. The unicorn stopped and turned up towards him, staring at
      him with dark black eyes run through with flecks of purple around
      the edges. Its mane was thoroughly disheveled, and for a moment it
      appeared that human blood was running down its scalp, but Quirrell
      realized that this was nothing more than its natural color: there
      was a shock of red hair through its tail and mane.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The unicorn watched him, expectantly, and tears began to well in
      its large, sorrowful eyes. Quirrell was quite sure that they were
      tears, as he was not one to project human emotion onto anything,
      much less a magically modified horse. It stood up, defiantly, on
      four shaking legs, and looked up into the air as Quirrell
      approached it. It closed its eyes, and without warning, the air
      around its horn began to shimmer, matter coalescing from the ether
      into a single dot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Heart quickening. Wand out. Ready.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The dot expanded, like an ice crystal forming suddenly in water,
      and built itself into the form of a tiara of sorts. It was golden,
      studded with nine blue gemstones along its face. Atop the tiara was
      finely wrought gold wiring crafted into an ornate design, holding
      in place a large blood-red gemstone cut into the shape of a
      six-pointed star.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell had already built six varieties of shields, not only
      around himself, but around the unicorn in the event it tried to
      run, charge, or attack. He prepared the ground around the creature
      with an enchantment that would transform the dirt into a quagmire
      of living roots, ready to release his magic at a moment's notice to
      complete the spell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The unicorn opened its mouth, and to Quirrell's surprise, it
      began to speak. "<strong class="calibre9">You are here... The one who will tear
      apart the very stars in heaven. You are here... you are the end of
      the world.</strong>" When it finished, its eyes began to fill with
      brilliant white light, so bright that it illuminated the clearing
      and beyond, casting harsh black shadows as the light hit the
      trees.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And just as quickly as it started, the light winked out and the
      unicorn dropped to the ground, the tiara clattering away near
      Quirrell's feet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell's own rule nineteen stated that one should never simply
      sit and watch as an enemy begins to charge their ultimate attack,
      and so he acted accordingly. He would need to have a little
      conversation with this creature. Of course, it meant that he could
      not kill it, which meant he would need to find another unicorn upon
      which to feast, but that could be easily arranged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He walked around the fallen tiara, making sure not to brush
      against it, as Rule twenty-two stated that one should never touch,
      wear, attempt to use, or otherwise meaningfully interact with an
      unknown magical object until its function has been identified with
      a reasonable degree of certainty. He approached the unconscious
      body of the unicorn and quickly Transfigured it into a small,
      violet pebble, and dropped it into his pocket, mentally adding it
      to the list of Transfigurations he was required to maintain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He then turned his attention towards the tiara, thoroughly
      examining it without touching. It emanated a palpable magic power,
      and so he was hesitant to draw too close without casting the proper
      oracular charms. However, the writing on the inside of the tiara
      drew enough of his interest to merit a closer inspection. Given the
      non-zero chance that the object would react to magically-produced
      light, he decided that mundane fire would be a better tool for this
      particular task. He took a small stick from the ground and drew
      from his pockets two objects: a box of waterproof matches and a
      small tub of pitch. He stuck some of the pitch on the end of the
      stick, lit it with the match, and held it close to the tiara to
      read the writing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre9">Oon whit biyonde mesure is menn's gretest
      þresur.</strong></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, wasn't that just something?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had known that the Sword of Gryffindor could present itself
      to a worthy Gryffindor in a moment of dire need, having witnessed
      that very phenomenon himself not a few short weeks ago. He also
      knew that Slytherin's Monster would obey the command of any worthy
      Slytherin if the circumstance arose, and was living proof of that
      fact. So it wasn't unreasonable to assume that the Diadem of
      Ravenclaw could also present itself to a worthy Ravenclaw given the
      proper situation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Given the absence of other theories, he began to consider the
      implications of this one. If this were the Diadem of Ravenclaw
      presenting itself to a Ravenclaw, then this unicorn must be a
      Ravenclaw. Which obviously meant that this was not a unicorn, but
      an Animagus, which also explained how the creature could talk.
      Among available theories, the advantage is given to one that is
      both plausible and explains multiple mysteries at once.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He would soon find out what this creature knew of the prophecy,
      along with the circumstances enabling it to summon the Diadem of
      Ravenclaw, which had never in recorded history presented itself to
      a Ravenclaw (which was not altogether unsurprising, given the
      penchant for Ravenclaws for risk-aversion). He may have to delay
      his plans for a few days, but that was no matter. Information about
      the prophecy was of greater importance than any single aspect of
      his plan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As long as Potter's friend remained dead, he would stay at
      Hogwarts until they physically removed him from the premises. The
      stone was going nowhere, and Quirrell was capable of mounting a
      distraction that would temporarily require the Headmaster's
      presence. Once the Headmaster was gone, Quirrell needed only to
      blackmail, threaten, or convince Potter to accompany him to the
      Mirror. Once the stone was retrieved, he simply needed to give the
      boy sufficient motivation and opportunity to make an attempt on
      Quirrell's life, his true life, in order to break the protections
      preventing Quirrell from killing the boy. Given that the boy was
      sentimental, reckless, and staggeringly naive, this would not be a
      particularly difficult task.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He briefly considered the fact that he felt the telltale signs
      of functional unicorn blood as he had consumed it earlier that
      night. If terminating an Animagus transformation counted as "dying"
      for the purpose of utilizing the life-extending properties of
      unicorn's blood, it could be a very useful fallback option in the
      event that his plans did not unfold in the manner of his choosing.
      He added that to his mental list of "things to try on a disposable
      minion", and spent a moment to examine the Diadem.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre9">Ra eset</strong></em>", he whispered, casting a
      standard oracular charm that had a spectacularly low chance of
      negative interaction. The structure of the spells infusing the
      Diadem began to unfold themselves, revealing the general thrusts of
      its function. He poked and prodded at the abstract blobs of color
      that were laid out in front of him. Interesting, very interesting.
      It seemed to match the descriptions of lore: it isolated a certain
      mental quality within the wearer, and built upon it, expanding
      exponentially outward, using the wearer's own magic to power the
      expansion. So it couldn't work on Muggles, and it couldn't work on
      animals...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...or could it?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Credible legend had suggested that Salazar Slytherin had used
      the Crown of Serpents in order to grant snakes a measure of
      sapience in order to bestow the Parselmouth Curse upon himself and
      his descendants. It was not out of the question that the Diadem of
      Ravenclaw could grant a similar degree of intelligence to magical
      creatures, sufficient intelligence, for example, to allow a unicorn
      to talk. If that were the case, then this creature could be a true
      unicorn rather than an Animagus. It would certainly explain why he
      had felt the true effects of the consumption of unicorn blood, but
      it did not explain how the Diadem would have presented itself to
      the beast.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No matter. He would solve that riddle soon enough. Either way,
      he was completely confident that whatever the effects of the
      Diadem, they were not negative. Dark magic left traces, and this
      object was pristine. Gingerly, he took the Diadem and placed it
      upon his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was entirely possible that the object could not be unlocked
      except by a Ravenclaw, or perhaps required the solving of a riddle
      of some kind. If the former, this could prove useful if he needed
      to enhance the Potter boy, although that would be a dangerous
      gambit and not one he would use unless as a last resort. If it did
      happen to be the latter, the problem did not need to be solved now.
      Besides, Potter was alone in the Forbidden Forest, and he could no
      longer hear the sounds of trees being torn apart. If the Professor
      knew the boy well enough, he probably had found himself in some
      kind of trouble by now and needed a deus ex machina to extricate
      him from his dilemma.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He placed the Diadem into his robes and set off in the direction
      of where he had left the boy.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">June 4, 1992</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once he had seen to the safety of
      Girl-Who-Used-To-Be-A-Unicorn-But-Now-Was-Unconscious-In-The-Hospital-Wing,
      for lack of a better name, was safe, the growing list of questions
      in his head had reached critical mass, and each new question forced
      old ones out of his mind. There were questions of mere curiosity,
      like where they came from and why they were here, and how they even
      got here. He had theories that he was seeking confirmation for,
      like thinking the Girl-Who-Used-To-Be... No, Purple Hair. Purple
      Hair it was. Like thinking Purple Hair was an Animagus, or perhaps
      a Metamorphmagus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But mostly he was curious about Discord, and his claims of
      nigh-omnipotence. It wasn't often that a giant "Easy Button"
      plopped directly into one's lap, even in the magical world
      (considering that Magic was basically one big "Easy Button" unto
      itself). So far, Discord hadn't actually done anything that was
      outside the realm of possibility established by the existing
      magical rules with which Harry was familiar. He appeared out of
      nowhere, but that could be easily explained by Apparition. His
      initial form was that of a dragon-goat-snake-lizard-horse-whatever
      hybrid, and then he effortlessly transformed into a massive woman
      that he could only assume was half-giant or something. But that too
      could be relatively easily explained if he was a Metamorphmagus. He
      turned Harry's wand temporarily into a fish, had forcibly
      transported the pink-haired witch into his arms, and had
      transformed all of their clothes into new, matching uniforms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wordless, wandless transfiguration, non-self-Apparition and
      summoning? It was all <em class="calibre7">possible</em>, but each observation
      required a separate, discrete, unlikely explanation. He had heard
      that house elves possessed such magic, but he had always assumed
      that their temperament was a bit less... dramatic and ostentatious.
      Even if the explanation was relatively mundane, it was still worth
      exploring what was possible. He would be kicking himself if he
      found out years from now that this creature could have just snapped
      his claws and resurrected the dead if only Harry had asked, but the
      window of opportunity had closed and now Hermione was gone
      forever.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had asked around the castle for more information about where
      these five guests were residing for the time being. The response
      from the students was universally useless, with the boys giving him
      knowing winks and nudges, assuring him that they too were very
      interested in the answer to that question, before conversing among
      themselves as to which of the witches they wanted to "meet" first.
      And the girls rolled their eyes and gave chilly responses,
      inquiring pointedly why he seemed to care so much about those
      witches with the ridiculous hair, like having rainbow streaks or
      pink hair made them oh-so-cool or something because what was wrong
      with the girls here at Hogwarts?!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Useless. All of them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The teachers were similarly worthless, giving him a reassuring
      smile and assuring him that he'd find out soon enough, but that he
      really, really didn't want to miss dinner tonight. It had occurred
      to Harry at that moment that he had been skipping dinner... and,
      well, lunch and sometimes breakfast several times a week recently.
      Now that he thought about it, he <em class="calibre7">was</em> pretty hungry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The secrets of the universe would have to wait until dinnertime,
      apparently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As he found a spot in the Great Hall, he saw that the tables
      were uncharacteristically devoid of food. He noticed a few
      surprised glances from other students directed his way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, yeah, I know, I know. I'm hungry today," he remarked, to
      no one in particular.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He sat down and looked around the Great Hall as students filed
      in and sat down. The Defense Professor was absent, as expected, and
      Dumbledore was nowhere to be seen. Harry braced himself for
      whatever suitably dramatic entrance had been prepared. As if on
      cue, all the torches in the Great Hall extinguished and were
      replaced with flames of a brilliant blue roughly the same shade as
      the witches' new uniforms. The students collectively gasped and
      began chattering among themselves excitedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Greetings, students, teachers, and newcomers alike," boomed the
      voice of the Headmaster, who had apparently entered and walked up
      to his podium in the din of excitement. "I have received word last
      night that we have a sextuplet of visitors from our sister school,
      Beauxbatons!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Polite applause mixed with stifled giggles from some of the
      older Gryffindor boys. Dumbledore raised an eyebrow at them in a
      silent "Really?", and resumed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"May I present to you, Headmistress of Beauxbatons, and the fine
      witches of Beauxbatons Academy of Magic!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The door to the Great Hall opened, and
      Discord-Slash-Half-Giant-Headmistress walked imperiously down the
      aisle towards the podium, with the four witches in tow. Rainbow
      Witch and Pinky regarded the spectacle with excitement, whereas
      Clarice seemed quite skeptical. Scaredy-Cat, as expected, clung as
      close as possible to the false Headmistress and kept her eyes
      fixedly forward.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When they reached the front, Dumbledore extended his hand to
      Discord, who politely declined. She whispered to him in a sidebar,
      "I am sorry, Dumbly-dorr, but one of our students has contracted an
      'orrible case of zee Draconequus Pox, so she shall not be joining
      us. I fear as 'zo I may have also come down with an 'int of zee
      illness myself, and I would 'ate to pass 'ziss terrible ailment on
      to you, 'eadmaster."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore smiled politely, "I think you'll find it will take a
      bit more than an aggressive case of Dragon Pox to keep me from
      taking part in the festivities, but I agree that it would be best
      to avoid an epidemic," and lowered himself into a dramatic bow, to
      which she responded with an awkward curtsy. He turned and addressed
      the crowd.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As is our custom, students who wish to stay in Hogwarts as more
      than guests must be Sorted according to Hogwarts' values, so that
      they will be allowed entrance into the various common rooms. And
      so, without further ado, would you do the honors, Professor
      McGonagall?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She gave him a curt nod, and from behind the Professor's Table,
      she withdrew an old patchwork hat, which despite being an inanimate
      object, looked thoroughly displeased to be here. She walked out
      from behind the table and stood next to Dumbledore, who casually
      flicked his wand and produced a cushioned stool from thin air.
      Harry couldn't help but notice it looked decidedly more comfortable
      than the stool that he and his classmates had sat upon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a swift motion, McGonagall pulled a small length of
      parchment from her robes and cleared her throat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When I call your name, you will come forth, I shall place the
      Sorting Hat on your head, and you will be sorted into your houses.
      Tisiphone Erinys!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No one moved. The four witches looked around awkwardly until
      Rainbow Witch caught sight of Madame Maxime giving her a withering
      death glare. "Oh! Yeah, that's me!" She bound quickly over to the
      stool, and sat down, unsure of what to do. McGonagall placed the
      hat upon her head, and the crowd in the hall went silent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmmmm..." The fold in the hat split open as it began to speak.
      "Hmm...difficult, very difficult. Plenty of courage I see, not a
      bad mind, either. There's talent, oh yes, and a thirst to prove
      yourself. But where to put you? You could be great, you know. It's
      all here in your head. And Slytherin will help you on your way to
      greatness! There's no doubt about that! No? Well...better
      be...GRYFFINDOR!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rainbow Witch shrugged as the Gryffindor table erupted into
      applause. Judging by some of the high fives going around, several
      of the Gryffindor boys were quite pleased. She sat down next to the
      Weasley twins, who both commented in unison: "Nice hair."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, yeah, you too! So, um, which one of you is the real
      one?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Without missing a beat, they both replied in unison, "He
      is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, my friend had a similar problem. We put all of her
      into a room and Twi- I mean, one of my other friends did this test
      to see which one was real. I kinda got bored after the first ten
      minutes, but the whole thing worked. I think."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you believe Professor McGonagall, two of us is two too
      many," Fred remarked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And if you catch her on a bad day, she even says two of us is
      three too many." George deadpanned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rainbow Witch laughed a bit, "You guys are all right."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They were interrupted by Professor McGonagall loudly clearing
      her throat again, "Mr. Weasley and Mr. Weasley, you will have
      plenty of time to charm and subsequently disappoint this young
      witch over the next week, so I see no reason to further interrupt
      this ceremony. Megaera Erinys!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Clarice hopped up and trotted up to the stool, and waited as the
      hat was placed upon her blonde hair. She looked up, expectantly as
      it spoke. "Hmmm... Another Apple, eh? I know just what to do with
      you! HUFFLEPUFF!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She smiled, leapt down from the stool, and walked towards the
      cheering table of students in the black and yellow robes. As she
      passed by, the portly Professor Sprout leaned over to her and
      spoke, "We're the House of the honest, hard-working, and loyal, you
      know!" Clarice beamed at that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sounds right up my alley!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry found Professor Sprout's tone somewhat odd; it was almost
      perfunctory despite her beaming expression. He didn't have much
      time to think about it further, however, as Professor McGonagall
      wasted no time in announcing the next student's name, "Jane...
      Plein." She spoke the last name with the slightest hint of rising
      inflection, which by Professor McGonagall's standards was
      tantamount to dramatically rolling her eyes and declaring,
      "Seriously?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Scaredy-Cat timidly approached the stool, looking around at the
      throngs of students eagerly eying her. McGonagall held the hat in
      her hands and began to place it down, but the moment the barest
      loose thread of the hat brushed against Scaredy-Cat's pale pink
      hair, it shouted at the top of its lungs: "SLYTHERIN!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Scaredy-Cat clapped her hands together once, and in a small
      voice, no louder than a whisper, said, "Yay."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The entire Great Hall looked immensely skeptical, but perhaps
      none more so than Professor Snape and the whole of Slytherin House,
      who were tepidly applauding out of politeness rather than
      excitement. Draco caught Harry's eye from across the room, and
      Harry spread his arms in resignation and shrugged. Content, she
      walked over to an empty seat on the Slytherin table and sat
      down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And lastly... Alecto Erinys!" called Professor McGonagall,
      breaking the somewhat awkward silence. Pinky had her fists to her
      mouth, shaking with excited anticipation. When her name was called,
      she leapt out of her chair and squealed. She skipped up to the
      stool, plopped herself down, and immediately began asking the Hat
      questions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you think, Mr. Hat? I knew a Griffon once, but she was
      kind of a meanie. She didn't like pranks, not ONE BIT. I bet I
      would be good in Pufferstuff, I bet they like parties." She craned
      her head over to the Hufflepuff table and asked them directly, "Do
      you like parties? I LOVE parties!" The Hufflepuffs nodded and
      grinned, several of them laughing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor McGonagall cleared her throat. "Ms. Erinys, I can
      assure you that the Hat will answer all of your questions. In
      silence."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pinky gave her an exaggerated frown, and when the hat was placed
      on her head, she began thinking all of the questions that came to
      mind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">What's it like being a hat?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Do you eat?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Where does it go when you eat?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Do you like to eat?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Do you like to eat CAKE?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I love cake.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Oh wait, that wasn't a question.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Neither was that.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">OH NO THINK OF A QUESTION WHATS A HEFFALUMP?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">What house was that creepy boy in the forest sorted
      into?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">What does he know about Twilight?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Do you think he likes to eat cake?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I wonder who likes to eat unicorns.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I made a unicorn cake once.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">OH NO THAT WASN'T A QUEST-</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her inner voice was cut off by the Hat speaking in a slightly
      dazed voice. "Oh dear. This has never happened before."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pinky's eyes went wide. "OOOooo. What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your voice..." the Sorting Hat managed weakly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...has chased away all the sanity in me." As it continued, its
      voice rose in inflection, almost melodic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pinky touched the brim of the Hat as she looked upward at it.
      "That doesn't sound good."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The melody in the Hat's words became more pronounced. "These
      wounds won't seem to heal. This pain is just too real. There's just
      too much that Time cannot erase!" There was a brief pause, and then
      without warning, the old Hat's brim opened wide and it began
      crooning at the top of its non-existent lungs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"WHEN YOU CRIED, I'D WIPE AWAY ALL OF YOUR TEARS!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pinky's eyes lit up. "OOOO! Are we singing now?" She clapped her
      hands together and began signing alongside the hat, albeit in a
      completely different rhythm and tune.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come on everybody, smile smile smile, fill my heart up with
      sunshine, sunshine!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"WHEN YOU'D SCREAM, I'D FIGHT AWAY ALL OF YOUR FEARS!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All I really need's a smile, smile, smile!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I HELD YOUR HAND THROUGH ALL OF THESE YEARS!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For these happy friends of mine!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"BUT YOU STILL HAVE ALL OF... Wait. No. Nope. NOPE. No more of
      this nonsense. RAVENCLAW!" The Hat shouted in terror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The post-sorting Quietus charm had triggered, yet Pinky
      continued to sing silently, completely oblivious to this fact, her
      expression animated and joyful. The entire Hall was silent, looking
      at each other in bewildered disbelief. McGonagall was glaring, eyes
      narrowed, directly at Harry, who desperately and emphatically
      mouthed the words, "It wasn't me!" and was met with little more
      than a skeptical huff.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore was smiling pleasantly, waving his wand like a
      conductor in time with the silent song that Pinky continued to belt
      out. Apparently, she was reaching the grand finale, because she
      stood up and threw her arms into the air and held a silent note for
      a solid five seconds before stopping, clapping her hands together
      and giggling manically. Dumbledore politely clapped for her, which
      the rest of the Great Hall mimicked, unsure of what else to do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall briskly removed the hat from her head, and Pinky
      squealed, "Great job, Mr. Hat! We should do that again!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry could have sworn he saw the hat desperately shake itself
      back and forth, as if to scream, "NO".</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
