<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>The Longest Day - The Longest Day Chapter 25: The Decimation, a Harry Potter + My Little Pony Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="The Longest Day"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s25" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 25: The Decimation</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre9">SNAP.</strong></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">If Harry had been told the true extent of the world-altering
      power of the Elements of Harmony, he would have had absolutely no
      interest, whatsoever, in exploring their capabilities. He simply
      would not have trusted himself with that sort of decision-making
      power. The Vow had seen to that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But as it were, he had no need to trust himself; the Elements
      themselves told him precisely what he needed to do to thread the
      world through the needle, and why he should trust their judgment
      instead of his own.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were many among Wizard-kind who had claimed they would
      rather die than live in a world without Magic, to see their wands
      become sticks in their hands and see the blood of Atlantis fail.
      The Mind Stone peered into them and extracted their volition, which
      the Element of Hope, the Time Stone extrapolated into a coherent
      vision of their true desires, followed to their logical endpoint.
      And as it were, many of them truly <em class="calibre7">would</em> rather die, and
      so their wish was granted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Across the world, trinkets containing the souls of those held in
      Forbearance faded into nothingness, the purpose of their existence
      having been fulfilled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Across the world, people from all walks of life, magical or no,
      began to notice things they had never bothered to pay attention to
      before.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Across the world, Wizards felt their command of magic, a crutch
      upon which they leaned to navigate the world, slip further and
      further away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And across the world, people began to crumble; from dust they
      came, and to dust, they had returned.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The Graveyard</em><br class="calibre4"/>
      <em class="calibre7">The Longest Day</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Something was happening. Something felt different.
      <em class="calibre7">Everything</em> felt different.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">So shines a good deed in a weary world."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry whipped his head around to see Discord, in his full
      Draconequus form, standing atop the altar, clapping gleefully,
      wearing an absurd purple crushed velvet suit with a floral vest
      underneath and an orange top hat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"</em>Harry, my boy. You've WON! You DID it! You DID it! Oh,
      I just KNEW you would, I JUST <em class="calibre7">KNEW</em> YOU WOULD! Oh, Harry,
      <em class="calibre7">forgive</em> me for putting you through this, <em class="calibre7">please</em>
      forgive me." Discord gushed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is what I think is happening actually happening?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Discord nodded, grinning wildly. "Yep. Gone. Splat. Poof.
      Goodbye, Magic!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco's eyes went wide with horror, "Goodbye... WHAT?! Harry...
      what have you done?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry tried not to meet his friend's gaze, "I don't know if you
      can understand. I couldn't <em class="calibre7">not</em> do it. These things,
      these... Elements of Harmony... Someone way above our pay grade
      conspired to bring them all here tonight. The Unbreakable Vow... It
      can't compel me to any sort of positive action, but in this case, a
      choice <em class="calibre7">had</em> to be made and there was only one choice I
      <em class="calibre7">could</em> make-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shut... just... Harry, just shut up and get to the point.
      <em class="calibre7">What did you do?</em>" Draco shrieked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione held out a hand, urging Draco to calm down. "Draco,
      listen to me. Whatever happens next, <em class="calibre7">it's going to be
      okay</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">What is going to be okay? WHAT DID YOU DO?"</em> Draco was
      positively shouting at this point.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Discord heaved a sigh. "Why are you so eager to know, my
      slippery little friend? Don't you... <em class="calibre7">trust</em> Harry not to
      mess this up? Really think about that one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco paused for a moment. It <em class="calibre7">was</em> Harry, after all, he
      had to have <em class="calibre7">some</em> kind of plan. At the very least, he could
      trust-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Trust.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He could <em class="calibre7">trust</em> Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No." Draco whispered. "No, no, no... No, no, no, no..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He could <em class="calibre7">trust Harry</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You... Dumbledore's prophecy- Wands turning into sticks in our
      hands... He never said that bringing you the Stone would
      <em class="calibre7">prevent</em> that. I... No. No, no, no no no no. Lumos.
      <em class="calibre7">Lumos. LUMOS!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had recovered his wand and desperately pointed it into the
      night. It took several tries for the spell to catch, and even then,
      only a weak stream of light poured out from the tip of the wand. He
      stared back at Harry, and after a few moments of silence, began to
      speak. "Harry. Did you... Did you just destroy Magic?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Discord tittered, "Oh, that's just the beginning!"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Doug and Rachel Ferno were walking through a quiet neighborhood
      in London with their two young daughters, having just finished
      watching a particularly forgettable movie about a genie starring
      some American comedian. The kids seemed to enjoy it for the moment,
      although they were quickly becoming restless again. Or at least,
      one of them was becoming restless; despite being twins, Laura and
      Natalie were about as different as two sisters could be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Presently, Natalie was riding on top of her dad's shoulders,
      taking in the sights. Laura, on the other hand, was speeding down
      the street awkwardly, much to her mother's consternation, rattling
      off the house numbers, proud to show the world that she had learned
      to read numerals.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Eight! Nine! Ten!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Laura, that's far enough, why don't you come back now?" Doug
      called to her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She pretended not to hear him. "Eleven! Twelve! Thirteen!
      Fourteen!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Laura.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She stopped in her tracks at her mother's ringing command.
      Slowly, she turned around and began moping back to them, calling
      out the numbers again with a very-much-aggrieved tone in her voice,
      "Fourteen. Thirteen. Twelve. Eleven. Ten."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Doug looked up at the houses, pausing for a moment. "Rach,
      wasn't this supposed to be the street with the missing house? You
      know, where they had a mistake in the numbering? What was it...
      Grimaldi Plaza or something?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Grimmauld Place?" Rachel nodded her head up to the street sign
      nearby.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, that's the one. Don't you remember hearing about
      that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rachel was too busy giving Laura <em class="calibre7">the look</em> to really
      think about her husband's question, so she just responded with a
      shrug, but when he continued to look concerned, she decided to
      humor him. "I think you're right. One of those filler articles in
      the paper, strange facts about London or something. 'There is no 12
      Grimmauld Place.' Must just be the Mandela Effect, I suppose."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"I... I don't remember there being a castle at the top of Mount
      Greylock," Jane Berenstain whispered to her husband, looking out
      from the car to the structure that loomed before her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh? Oh, yeah, I think I read about that. I think they built it
      back in the 80s. Thought it would get more visitors or something
      like that," Charles went back to reading his book. The third
      installment of <em class="calibre7">The Dark Tower</em> series had just come out a
      few months ago and he finally had a chance to start reading it
      during the drive from their home town of Wilbraham to the
      mountain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hm, alright then. Well, we're here, all the same. We better-"
      Jane stopped as she saw someone, (they must have been foreign, she
      reckoned, given their funny clothes), hunched over atop one of the
      parapets. "Charles. Charles!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jane pointed at the person, who most decidedly did not look
      well. "Look at that. What's he doing? He looks like he's about to
      throw up over the edge or something!" Jane looked back to her
      husband, whose head was buried in the book and was clearly not
      paying attention, and gave him a jab to the ribs. "Charles!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He grumpily put down the book. "What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She pointed emphatically towards where she had been looking,
      where moments before, a figure had stood, but now there was only
      dust.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What am I looking at?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jane paused. "Huh. That's odd. I could have sworn there was a
      person up there."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus Snape desperately fumbled with the chain that he always
      kept on his person, upon the end of which had been an ornately
      carved pair of deer, locked in an embrace. He had maintained the
      magic of Forbearance for the last eleven years as atonement,
      penance for what he had allowed to happen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And now, it was crumbling to dust.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He couldn't let this happen, but it was happening, all the same.
      His hold over his magic was waning, the Transfiguration was
      slipping, but that shouldn't have done this. There were more than
      enough people who knew and loved the Potters who had contributed
      their magic. For it to crumble, all of <em class="calibre7">their</em> magic would
      have to be waning too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He swung open his cabinet, quickly finding a Potion of Pure
      Preservation and uncorked it, pouring it into a glass bowl on his
      desk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">That's odd.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It didn't have the characteristic iridescent sheen or the vague
      smell of candied walnuts. In fact, it looked like nothing more than
      plain water.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He pulled his wand from his robes and tapped the bowl quickly,
      "Ra eset".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ra eset."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lumos."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wingardium Leviosa."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape sat down in his chair. It was happening.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He buried his face in his hands. It was happening, which meant
      she would be gone forever. Lily was gone, James was gone, the
      chance for their forgiveness forever lost. What did he have in this
      world, if not his penance, his absolution?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Something in the dim recesses of his mind, something intimate
      but somehow foreign, was probing him, exploring his desires, his
      needs, his wants.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Do you wish forgiveness?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">More than anything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">More than your own life?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Yes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Would you like to continue seeking forgiveness?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Yes, yes, please, more than anything, yes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Then come</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Yes, I think I will.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Come.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Loops and whorls of dust flittered around the now-empty office
      in the dungeon, which seemed strangely <em class="calibre7">peaceful</em> for the
      first time in over a decade.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Alastor Moody tapped on the Dark Detector, which had ceased
      activity after going haywire for the last hour or two since
      Dumbledore's disappearance. Minerva McGonagall was similarly
      concerned, as the Mirror she was using to communicate with Amelia
      Bones stopped working inexplicably.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Both of them had fought long enough to know the difference
      between deliberate interference and <em class="calibre7">something else
      entirely</em>. And this was, beyond any reasonable doubt, something
      else entirely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And both of them had lived long enough to where the touch of
      their own Magic was something so second-nature, that its absence to
      them was roughly as jarring as losing one's sense of smell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is it, Minerva." Moody spoke, gravely, the Eye of Vance
      hanging lifelessly in its socket.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I suppose it is." McGonagall nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dumbledore warned us about this, how it might happen. It'll be
      painful for us, I reckon. Old and damaged as we are. I always keep
      one of these around, just in case." he held out a small glass
      bottle with a few capsules inside, "Purely non-magical, and
      perfectly lethal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, Alastor, although admirable as your preparation may be, I
      would prefer to see this one out until the end."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Suit yerself," Moody shrugged as he uncapped the bottle,
      tossing his head back. "Bottoms up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall placed a hand on his shoulder. "Wait."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She stared wistfully out the window. "I... I had a sister. Once.
      "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know that. I was there when she died, we fought ol' Voldie
      together. You think I'm daft?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, Alastor," she held out the chain around her neck, whose
      stout iron bauble had now faded into dust, staring at the empty
      clasp meaningfully. "I <em class="calibre7">had</em> a sister. And I thought... When
      the end came, that we would be together, like this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alastor nodded, understanding. "Listen, Minerva. You and me,
      we're fighters. Protectors. Always have been. And now, well, the
      world is changing. There's nothing left for us to protect. It's
      time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, it is. It's time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Come</em>.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"So. Your resignation, huh?" Marcellus asked the man in front of
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's time for me to start a new life. To walk the Earth, to be
      the shepherd."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh-huh. Damn shame about Vincent. Damn shame."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He nodded, "I'd like to think he's at peace now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Peace. Sure." Marcellus leaned forward, lifting the decanter at
      the corner of his desk which had been filled with a deep, blood-red
      liquid but now contained nothing but dust. "I've been thinking
      about getting out of the game, too. Move to an island somewhere.
      Enjoy my... remaining years."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And here I was, thinking you were going to live forever."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah. Me too." Marcellus sighed, heavily, removing a flask from
      his desk drawer filled with a more conventional beverage. He filled
      two glasses, then offered one to Jules. "To good health."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To good health. So where do you think you'll go?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tahiti sounds nice. I hear its a magical place. You?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Two Pines, Texas. I hear it's a shithole."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Marcellus Wallace and Jules Winnfield laughed, and the two men
      sat in silence for a time, enjoying the drink and each other's
      company.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bella. Bella. Please... Don't. Don't go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cissy... I've done too much. I've opened too many doors,
      crossed too many bridges and burned them in my wake and pissed on
      the ashes. I'm not dying today. I died thirteen years ago. And I
      did what I set out to do. I was your Orpheus. I traveled to the
      underworld, and now you're back. There's nothing more I can
      do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Narcissa was crying hysterically while Lesath was strangely
      quiet. He seemed to understand, after a fashion. Narcissa couldn't
      form a response, but Lesath looked up. "I love you, mum. Even
      though I don't really... <em class="calibre7">know</em> you, the real you... But I
      love you. Whoever you are. And if you think it's time, well...
      Maybe it's time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lesath, little Lesath... You can feel what's happening. You
      know there's no place for me here. Please just... remember me like
      this and not... Not... how I <em class="calibre7">was."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lesath nodded, having no more words to say, and instead, he gave
      his mother a tight embrace.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Come</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And with that, Bellatrix Black returned to the ashes from which
      she had once risen, leaving Narcissa Malfoy and Lesath Lestrange
      alone in an unfamiliar world.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Gellert Grindelwald's rheumy, clouded eyes looked up into the
      nothingness before him, free for the first time in more than fifty
      years to leave his prison.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voices were calling to him, in a language which was unfamiliar,
      and yet thoroughly intimate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Is it time?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Al... Albus, is that you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Yes, and no.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're... You came back. It's been so long, so long."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Come.</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville held his parents tightly. He had always said, he'd trade
      all the Magic in the world just for the chance to spend an hour
      with his parents, pristine and undamaged. They hugged him back,
      still shaking off the cobwebs of more than a decade of
      incapacitation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It seemed now that he was getting his wish, and then some.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">King Sombra smiled.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom Riddle was filled with knowledge. Ancient purpose, and new
      understanding. The Mind Stone had expanded the scope of his already
      considerable intellect, exposing him to truths that had laid
      outside his grasp, or were buried deep within his soul through
      years of deliberate construction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One truth hung heavier than all the rest, stinging with the
      white-hot fires of self-judgment, unavoidable, inexorable. Filled
      with the knowledge of who he truly was, <em class="calibre7">what</em> he truly
      was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was <em class="calibre7">alone</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Utterly, completely, <em class="calibre7">forever alone</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Learned in all manners of the deepest and most eldritch magics,
      and yet ignorant as to the one Magic that mattered the most, the
      only Magic that would matter now, in this new day to which he was
      bearing witness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salvation was possible in this new world, true immortal life,
      this much he was shown, this much he knew. It could be built, but
      he also knew it could not be built with the magic that he once
      knew. It could only be built <em class="calibre7">together.</em> And 'together' was
      a concept that was thoroughly alien to Tom Marvolo Riddle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Until now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Come with us, Tom Riddle, if you wish.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now, there was hope.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Come with us, Tom Riddle, and we can teach you what you wish
      to know.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had nothing in this world, but this was not the only world,
      for now at least. All was not lost.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Come</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had hope.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had some vague sense of what was happening across the
      once-Magical world and looked up at Discord. He didn't feel panic,
      as he expected, but a strange sense of calm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They aren't dying," he stated. Somehow he knew this was the
      case, and yet he still wanted to hear confirmation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Discord was now sitting at the altar with his copy of
      Discordpedia, furiously scribbling out some passages, erasing
      others, rewriting others further still. "They're not dying. They're
      going to a new home. Well, some of them are. Others are sticking
      around, to help rebuild."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco looked up at the creature before him, "And what... what of
      our dead? What of..." He held up the jade statue he had
      transfigured not a short time before but was surprised to see that
      it was nothing but dust.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Discord pointed a claw behind Draco. "Why don't you ask him for
      yourself?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco spun around and saw the form of his father, composed of
      fractal patterns of flickering light, hovering close behind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello, son."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dad... Dad. You're... You're not coming back, are you?" Draco
      was openly weeping, now. "What am I going to do? We have
      nothing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius laughed, causing his form to warble and pulsate. "Draco.
      The Malfoys have survived more calamitous regime changes in the
      past. We would hardly be the Malfoys if we were not prepared for
      such an eventuality. In my study, there is a key to a storage
      locker at King's Cross station. Within it, you will find all that
      you need to start a new life in this new world... And you will have
      quite a considerable head start. As it so happens, it seems that
      the Muggles have... or rather, <em class="calibre7">had</em> a very different
      economic value that they placed on our silver knuts than we do. A
      value that was very ripe for exploitation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can't I... Can't I come with you? To where you're going? To
      where... they're going?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You could, if you truly wished it. But you don't. I don't need
      an artifact of power to see that, I know you. You need to stay
      here, stay with your mother, rebuild this world, and see to it that
      the Malfoy legacy is secure. More importantly, that is what you
      truly desire."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can you just... stay here for a few minutes? I'm not ready to
      say goodbye. Not yet, at least."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco was sobbing gigantic, oversized tears that were starting
      to flood the ground around the altar, and Harry noticed his feet
      starting to grow damp. Once he had caught Harry's attention, he
      stopped the theatrics immediately and leaned over. "You didn't
      really think that <em class="calibre7">magic</em> was going to be the secret to
      saving the world, did you? Or at least, 'saving the world' by your
      and my definition."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Actually, yes, I kind of did."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Discord booped Harry on the nose. "You silly goose, magic isn't
      real! Or at least... not anymore. But then again, you already know
      everything I'm about to say, don't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe I do, but I'm not sure. I don't know if it was the Vow
      that he made me swear to or the Elements of Harmony, but I had an
      epiphany that I knew on some deep, unassailable level was true.
      Magic, it does what we <em class="calibre7">know</em>. It's insanely powerful, it's
      awe-inspiring, but it's like the Dementors: it conforms to
      expectations. It does precisely what we expect it to do <em class="calibre7">because
      we expect it to</em>. And it's too easy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look at how the Wizarding world has stagnated. They've barely
      made any advances in the past 500 years, in fact, it seems as
      though they've actually regressed. And it's not just the Interdict
      of Merlin, I've read enough of history to see that things didn't
      progress that much between the Ancient Era and the High Middle
      Ages. The world is growing smaller, information is spreading faster
      than it ever has and it was only a matter of time before Magic
      would escape beyond the confines of this snowglobe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And then what? At best, some idiot like me would go and blow up
      half of Britain by experimenting with things he ought not to be
      experimenting with. Or worse still, the world would stagnate.
      Things would be too convenient. No one would learn anything because
      no one would <em class="calibre7">need</em> to learn anything. I've heard that most
      Wizard homes don't even have <em class="calibre7">bathrooms</em>, they just go on
      the floor and then make it disappear!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Discord grinned, sheepishly. "Oh, that part isn't actually true,
      I just hacked J.K. Rowling's twitter one day in the future."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nevermind, forget I said anything. Anyway, do go on, I was
      interrupting your enthralling and not-at-all contrived
      denouement."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um... Sure. Okay, so..." Harry realized he was speaking not
      really for the benefit of Discord, but also for Hermione and Draco.
      He did not realize, however, that it was unnecessary. Hermione came
      to the same understanding that Harry did, but several moments
      earlier, and without the aid of a sextuplet of godlike artifacts.
      And the last thing that Draco cared about at that moment was
      <em class="calibre7">magic.</em> "Power without understanding is nothing more than a
      crutch. Like those stories that you hear about rich people who
      crash land in the middle of nowhere and have no idea how to
      survive. That's where we would be. I'm not saying everyone has to
      know everything about everything... I can use a computer without
      knowing how to build a motherboard from sand and copper. But that's
      just it- at least I know how to use a computer. Here, in this
      world, people just know how to play Solitaire and that's it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The only way to save this world-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Was to destroy it," both Twilight and Hermione said
      together.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The world that birthed Equus... That was the world of
      <em class="calibre7">Magic,</em>" Twilight said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And the stars in the heavens... They're being torn apart right
      now, as we speak." Pinkie Pie's form was starting to waver, to
      fade, as she looked off in this distance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh darling, it's beautiful!" Rarity was holding hands with
      Rainbow Dash, Applejack and Fluttershy as they gazed together into
      the nothingness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's happening over there?" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think... I think Equestria is about to have a <em class="calibre7">lot</em> of
      new residents." Twilight grinned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Discord nodded. "Yes, indeed. You know, when I wrote that
      prophecy-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait, you wrote the prophecy?" Twilight interrupted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course I did, you bumpkin. Who else would have? Now don't
      interrupt me, it's my turn! When I wrote that prophecy, I figured,
      well, there's only so much we can do here, only so many stories we
      can tell. We had a good run of things," he leaned accusingly in
      towards Twilight, "Although everything started to go downhill once
      you got your wings."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Twilight looked offended, but Discord continued on. "But all
      good things must come to an end, no? Our worlds were connected for
      what seemed like forever, but now it's time for your world to move
      on. And it's time for us to build our own world, and now we have
      all the OC in the world to do it with?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"OC?" Harry asked. "Like... fanfiction?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Discord recoiled. "No, are you kidding me? OC: <em class="calibre7">Oblatum
      Caelum</em>. These little baubles and doodads, these magical
      cryonics. The transfigured bodies of all the dead witches and
      wizards throughout history, their brains and therefore their souls
      perfectly preserved. Rather macabre, if you asked me. I really was
      of half a mind to make that magic be the only thing to fail and see
      what would happen when half the world realized they were carrying
      decomposing corpses around their neck."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Discord sighed, wistfully, as he started floating back and
      forth. "But alas, I never get what I want, do I? Anyway, each time
      one of these was created, a new star appeared in Equus and each
      time a new life was created on Equus, Princess Luna would find the
      right star, smash it open like an egg and then, 'poof'! Out of the
      sky comes a little baby pony! And right now, I'm making Equestria's
      biggest omelet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what about you all?" Harry turned towards Rainbow Dash,
      Applejack, Fluttershy, Rarity and Pinkie Pie. "You all have kind of
      grown on me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's time for us to go home," Pinkie Pie said. "But I want to
      leave you with something, a little trinket for you to always
      remember me by."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She produced a single cupcake from her bag and presented it to
      Harry. "Actually, now that I think about it, you probably want to
      eat it today or tomorrow. I'm pretty sure it's going to go bad in a
      few days."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, her eyes lit up. "Oh, I guess I won't be needing this
      stuff anymore, so you can have this all, too!" And at that, she
      began dumping the contents of her Hammerspace bag onto the ground
      around the altar. "This might take awhile."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I... I won't forget you all. Ever."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco, whose tear-stained eyes held a look of deep contentment
      and peace, looked at them as well. "I didn't get a chance to really
      know any of you. Well, except for you, a little bit, Madame Shy.
      But I trust Harry, and if he says you were good people, then I know
      the world will be a lesser place without you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione looked warmly towards Twilight. "Well, it was fun being
      an alicorn princess for a few days, hours, years, however long we
      were there for."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was fun princessing with you, too!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I was proud to have you as my Patronus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I was proud to be your Patronus. We make a good team,
      Princess Hermione Granger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, we did, Princess Twilight Sparkle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Discord rolled his eyes and coughed loudly, "Well, listen. This
      has all been grand, but I'm sure that these new ponies are going to
      wake up and wonder just what on Equus is going on, and they're
      going to need someone to show them around, so we need to get a move
      on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He floated over to Harry, "But I want you to remember something.
      Although our two worlds will be separated, I'm sure that one day
      you'll find a way to reunite them. Because I'm leaving you with the
      most important magic of all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fr..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Discord coughed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Frien-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Discord gagged loudly. "I can't do it. Twilight, will you please
      do the honors?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Twilight rolled her eyes and grinned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Friendship."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And with that, the Equestrian girls and their Draconequus friend
      began to fade.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the moments before they disappeared, Spike began to shout:
      "Wait, what about me, don't I get a goodb-"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">And there, Harry, Draco and Hermione stood, not alone, but in
      friendship, on a perfectly ordinary, perfectly normal June night,
      ready to rebuild the world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Together.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
