<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>The Longest Day - The Longest Day Chapter 8: Have You Heard, Part 1, a Harry Potter + My Little Pony Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="The Longest Day"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s8" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 8: Have You Heard, Pt 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">"Hateful Prism," Applejack drawled, the skepticism practically
      dripping from her words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's what I said!" Rainbow Dash retorted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Applejack crossed her arms as she looked around at the
      ivy-covered columns. "Are you sure you're being honest? That all
      sounds a bit... dramatic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure, but isn't everything that happens to us 'dramatic'?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fair point," Applejack shrugged. "So, she threw off her cloak,
      grew wings, and floated up in the air?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yep. And she looked mostly like I do now. So, pretty cool. But
      with more eye makeup and dangly jewelry. And her hair was longer.
      Oh, and she had wings. Did I mention she had wings?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"About five times."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, she starts going into this spiel about how she is my dark
      reflection, the symbol of all my wasted potential, everything I
      could have been if I hadn't been held down..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Applejack cocked her eyebrow, "Held down?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rainbow Dash waved off the concern. "Yeah, it was just another
      one of those, 'let me try to tempt you with dark magic more
      powerful than friendship' sort of things."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Applejack had to stifle a giggle. "And was it... tempting?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, sure." Rainbow Dash oozed with false sincerity. "It told me
      I could have saved the world, been a hero to everyone. But instead,
      I chose to waste all of that on you," she barked out a coarse
      laugh. "It's like she thought I was Twilight or something. She
      should have known that I'm awesome enough to do both."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Applejack held her chin in her hand as she considered this. "So
      what happened next?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rainbow Dash shrugged. "Oh, the usual. I gave it a speech about
      friendship and why it's more important to love what you have than
      to focus on what might be." She moved her hands up and down in the
      universal 'blah blah blah' gesture. "Then my eyes went all glowy, I
      grew wings and some pony ears and a tail... Then I did whatever I
      imagine a Sonic Rainboom is here in this place." She planted her
      hands on her hips in satisfaction. "Then I blasted her to
      pieces."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sounds about right," Applejack remarked, completely unfazed by
      the bizarre turn of events.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All that was left was a tattered black cloak, which Harry
      rolled up into a ball and threw into the lake. I can't believe he
      thought that thing was scary!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait a minute, are you saying he watched this whole thing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well yeah, it was all his idea in the first place. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't think… that maybe you weren't the one this 'Hateful
      Prism' was trying to tempt?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rainbow Dash gave this some serious thought. "Well, now that you
      bring it up, Harry did seem to be really frazzled by the whole
      thing. But then again, I get the sense that things are a bit more…
      boring here in this world than in Equestria."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Applejack nodded vigorously. "Ain't that the truth. You should
      see what they call 'farming' here. I mean, they literally put seeds
      into the ground, and then just wait for them to grow. Organically.
      Can you believe that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean, it's not just a… What do you call it again?"
      Rainbow's eyes widened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"An abstraction layer? Nope! Just literal seeds, dirt, and time.
      Now, I'm not opposed to hard work and patience, but it's got to be
      <em class="calibre7">smart</em> work, know what I mean? Imagine if y'all Pegasi
      literally <em class="calibre7">moved physical clouds with your wings</em> to make
      the weather!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They both laughed together. "Can you imagine? So how do they
      even decide the weather here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Beats the applesauce out of me. I think they just leave it up
      to chance."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ha! No wonder Discord loves it here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that's what I don't really get. Discord said he doesn't
      have anywhere as much power here as he does in Equestria. But it
      seems like they leave a lot more up to chance here. Their food, the
      weather, even their foals, or babies, or whatever they call those
      things, here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, Believe me, I heard all about it from Harry. Here's what
      kind of creepy about this place. It's like they leave... their
      whole lives up to chance." Applejack arched an eyebrow and Rainbow
      Dash leaned in close. "You know what he told me about this place?
      He told me that people die every <em class="calibre7">second</em>. Every second. Can
      you believe that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Applejack felt a hot wave of revulsion. "Rainbow, I know you
      wouldn't be pulling my leg about something like this…" Although it
      was a statement, it really was more of a plea than anything,
      begging her friend to admit it was just nothing more than a
      tasteless joke. "No... That's... That's horrible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's what I said! But that's what made him summon that...
      whatever it was, the 'Dementor'. He told me that they were holes in
      the world, the primordial embodiment of Death, and told me what
      they do to people... make them relive their worst memories. I told
      him that sounds more like Fear than Death. But he was pretttttttty
      sure. Anyway, here's the crazy thing. When I first saw it, I
      couldn't see anything. But I knew something was supposed to be
      there, I could feel it. It was almost like… Like..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Like you had forgotten what it was supposed to look like?"
      Applejack provided.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah! Like it was on the tip of my tongue… Or… My eyes. You
      know what I mean. And then, well he asked me what I saw. And it
      wasn't until I tried to describe it that she, you know, 'Hateful
      Prism', popped out." Rainbow Dash flopped herself down onto the
      cool tile of the dilapidated structure in the Forbidden Forest.
      "You know, I miss Twilight. If she were here, she probably pulls
      out a book and says something like, 'According to the second book
      in the Horse Tack Materials trilogy, these sound a lot like the
      creatures that haunted Citagazze', and then that would be some kind
      of clue or something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, I miss her too." Applejack nodded, but then suddenly
      whipped her head around. "What's that noise?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They both squinted their eyes and peered through the trees in
      the forest. They could see two figures skulking their way from tree
      to tree, one holding a compass in her hand and the other holding
      his wand out projecting some sort of translucent shield. They
      couldn't tell whose team they were on, so they didn't call
      attention to themselves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So this game, huh?" Applejack cracked a grin as she whispered.
      "You figure it out yet?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, yeah! I figured it out two minutes after that creepy
      teacher told us the rules!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Seems pretty easy if you ask me but… Things are different here,
      I guess. You think Harry will figure it out?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rainbow Dash gave this some serious thought. "I don't know. He
      doesn't really seem like he's that good at making friends but… he
      reminds me a lot of Twilight. Obsessed with books, and just a bit
      rough around the edges. And look at her now, Princess of
      Friendship."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Applejack nudged her friend with a playful elbow. "You thinking
      he's gonna be a Prince of Friendship?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rainbow Dash laughed. "Stranger things have happened."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ain't that the truth."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, he's got a little bit of each of us in him. The way
      he was describing that Dementoid, he said it affected him worse
      than anyone because 'it was almost physically impossible for him to
      flinch away from the truth'."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Applejack pursed her lips. "I dunno, usually people who have to
      tell you how honest they are don't exactly tend to be the most
      trustworthy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that's the thing, he wasn't trying to brag about it. He
      was trying to make a point about how terrible those things were. It
      kind of reminded me of Pinkie a bit, with how intense he was. But
      with that creepy Fluttershy dark side. And he doesn't really think
      about much besides saving his friend... If that's not generosity, I
      don't know what is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, you've checked almost all the boxes... but you seem
      to be missing someone." Applejack gave Rainbow a sly grin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah. I know. We... well, we had a moment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oooooooooooo. Well, look at you, Rainbow Dash!" She laughed as
      she punched her on the shoulder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rainbow Dash laughed and rolled her eyes. "You know it's not
      like that. Besides, he's literally a baby. He says he's 11 years
      old."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You sure that's not one of those 'I call it a year, you call it
      a season' sort of things?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe. Probably. I can't quite figure out how time is supposed
      to work here. I mean, we've only been here a few days, but it feels
      like a whole year has gone by." Rainbow Dash squinted her eyes and
      looked up at the sun.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd say it feels more like eleven months, three weeks and two
      days, but who's counting?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rainbow Dash didn't seem to register what her friend had said.
      "Say, AJ, how much do you remember about... You know, before."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm. Same as you, I expect. Not much." she shrugged and looked
      at Rainbow Dash. "You?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rainbow Dash stared off into the distance, "Yeah. Not much."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Applejack chuckled. "That had to be the most convincing 'Not
      much' I've heard in my life."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rainbow Dash nodded without smiling. "I remember… I remember,
      being dead, you know? Just… Sort of… <em class="calibre7">Being</em>. For, I don't
      know how long. Existing without anything to really exist with. And
      I had this kind of feeling, this memory of who I was supposed to
      be. Then, I just sort of… You know… Woke up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Applejack nodded, having recalled a similar experience
      herself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And, ever since then, it's always kind of been in the back of
      my head that, well, I beat Death once. Who's to say I can't do it
      again?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Applejack was now shaking her head slightly. "I don't know
      there, Dash. I mean, if you remember it, then, well, you aren't
      really dead, are you? I mean, dead means… Gone. Forever."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know, I know. But you felt it too, didn't you? You know it
      was different. It wasn't like being asleep or knocked out. It was
      like… Well, it was like being dead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh huh," Applejack said with a hint of skeptical criticism in
      her voice. "And how do you know what that feels like?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I just told you, because... Oh." Her own use of circular logic
      just dawned on her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, Dash. Just 'cause something don't taste like an apple,
      that don't make it an orange."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The corners of Rainbow Dash's eyes wrinkled, belying just the
      slightest hint of distress. "But… How can you really believe
      that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There ain't nothing to believe. You don't <em class="calibre7">believe</em> the
      truth. It just is. The sky is blue. You can believe all you want
      that it's red but that ain't going to change much."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's funny you say that. You know, Discord once told me… Well,
      I guess he <em class="calibre7">asked</em> me: if the whole world believed the sky
      was red, would it matter if the sky was actually blue?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Applejack thought about this. "You know, I got a lot to say
      about that. I mean, for one, you know as well as I do that Discord
      plays by different rules. Half the time, what he's talking about
      ain't what he's actually saying, and the other half the time, he
      doesn't have any reason for saying what is saying. And besides, if
      everyone said the sky was red, that would just mean everyone was
      using different words to say the same thing. It's like if everyone
      started calling south 'north', and north 'south'. If someone gave
      you directions, you'd still find your way, all the same."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rainbow Dash was nodding vigorously in agreement. "That's just
      what I said! But then he told me, that wasn't what he meant, and
      that I knew it wasn't what he meant, and that I was just being
      difficult. So to teach me a lesson, he did some trick so that
      everyone thought my coat was red for a day. I was the only one who
      thought it was blue!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I remember that! But see, that's just what I mean. He plays by
      different rules, only Discord could pull a joke like that. Doesn't
      really tell us much, doesn't really tell us anything at all besides
      the fact that Discord likes to stir up trouble every now and
      then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure, but… If that's really how you think things are… How do
      you do all this? "She gestured her hands all around. "A lot of the
      stuff we do, actually most of the stuff we do is really kind of
      dangerous when you think about it. Like, really dangerous. If you
      didn't think, somewhere in the back your head that you had a safety
      net…" Rainbow Dash suddenly had a very crestfallen look on her face
      and didn't speak for some time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let me guess. You're thinking the only reason you're brave is
      'cause you've been telling yourself that you'll have a second
      chance if things go wrong? "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rainbow Dash nodded glumly. "And that's not really… Bravery at
      all, is it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Applejack rolled her eyes. "What do you think bravery is, Dash?
      Being stupid? Taking chances just for the sake of taking
      chances?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rainbow Dash gave a dejected shrug and Applejack continued.
      "It's fighting for something bigger than just you. It's being
      willing to take that chance, to make that sacrifice. Tell me, if
      you had to make the choice, right here, right now. You, or the five
      of us. Gone, forever. I'm not talking about falling asleep for a
      long time, or I'm not talking about your mind just drifting between
      the worlds while you wait for a new body. I'm talking dead,
      gone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With no hesitation whatsoever, Rainbow Dash replied, "I'd pick
      you all. Even if I had to choose between my life and just yours.
      There's no question."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Applejack gave her a gentle pat on the back. "See? Now that's
      bravery. And you know what? We'd make the same choice for you too.
      It's just that we all just have different ways of… You know… Coping
      with that. With death. For you, you said you feel like you beat
      death once so why couldn't you do it again? But it wasn't really
      <em class="calibre7">you</em> that beat death now, was it? See, what you're really
      saying here is, you trust your friends so much that you honestly
      believe, down in your heart of hearts, that no matter what happens,
      no matter how lost you get, your friends would fight for you and
      you'd fight for them. If that's not loyalty, I don't know what it
      is.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And me, well I'm an Apple. I face my problems head-on. I know
      that it's there, I know it's a possibility. But there's power in
      that, you know? By accepting the truth, it gives me the power to
      act on it. And Fluttershy, well, she's a healer at heart. Kindness,
      healing, life… Those things are kind of the opposite of death,
      aren't they? She's a warrior, out there on the front lines of the
      fight."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rainbow Dash smiled, feeling just a little bit better. "She's a
      warrior, all right. You know what they say, if you know how to
      heal, you know how to hurt."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Applejack shuddered a bit but nodded. "Ain't that the truth. And
      Rarity, well, you know she and I don't always see eye to eye, but I
      tell you what, she makes it for darn sure that we have something
      that's worth fighting for, something beautiful…" She twisted her
      voice into a good-natured mockery of Rarity's inflection,
      "Something <em class="calibre7">glamorous, darling</em>. And Pinkie, well, sometimes
      I don't blame her for just leaning in and embracing the crazy. I
      mean if we're being honest, this all <em class="calibre7">is</em> just a little bit
      crazy. I mean, we're walking, talking ponies for Faust's sake!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A sudden rustling in the nearby trees silenced them both,
      quickly. The two figures were close enough to where she could make
      out his face: it was Harry. She let out a whispered yell to get his
      attention.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry whipped his head around in their direction and stared at
      the tree line behind them. He looked over to his companion and
      nodded his head towards them. The way he was acting, it was like he
      was being followed. Or maybe, he was doing the following. Quickly,
      Harry and his companion ran from tree to tree, using the greenery
      as cover. After a few minutes of sneaking, they finally reached the
      structure that until they reached the structure that Rainbow Dash
      and Applejack had been confined to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Hey kid, I'm a computer</em>," Harry spoke in a voice
      distinctly not his own.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Applejack gave a sidelong glance to Rainbow Dash.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry waved his hand back and forth. "<em class="calibre7">Stop all the
      downloadin'!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rainbow Dash rolled her eyes. "He's forgotten already, hasn't
      he? Maybe I gave him too much credit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head and frustration and let out a long garbled
      stream of synthesized, computerized noise. His classmate who had
      now caught up, a wispy blonde little Hufflepuff first year that
      Applejack recognized as Angela Ziegler. She spoke in a voice that
      seemed far too low of a register for her diminutive frame.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Who wants a body massage?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked off another direction sharply, listening intently.
      Rainbow Dash leaned in and she could hear the noise as well.
      Footfall, and lots of it. It was coming from the direction of the
      clearing opposite them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With sudden urgency in his movement, Harry charged forward.
      Angela followed a few meters behind, with a bright golden tether of
      light emanating from her wand having attached itself to Harry. She
      was saying something as she ran... No, was she singing?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Low, eee ohh, Mr. Body Massage Machine-GO!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a sense of strange desperation in Harry's movement.
      His companion followed swiftly thereafter and the noise of the
      footfalls grew louder as he closed the distance to the clearing.
      Just as Harry reached the edge, Applejack and Rainbow Dash could
      see a large group of students emerge, led by a boy with a pointed
      face and slick, platinum blonde hair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With one final effort, Harry charged forward, holding his wand
      as if it were a hammer and then shouted in his own voice,
      "<em class="calibre7">Malleus Descendum!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was propelled forward with unnatural speed, and when his
      wand connected with the ground, a shockwave was sent towards the
      group of other students. When it hit them, they were all swept off
      their feet and Angela came charging in afterward, holding her wand
      high in the air and yelled, in a voice much more appropriate for
      someone her size, "<em class="calibre7">Helden Sterben Nicht!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The battlefield was bathed in a blinding, golden light.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Earlier</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco Malfoy was finding it particularly difficult to research
      the mystery of Hermione's death. He had staggered into the
      Slytherin common room carrying what must have been a dozen books.
      Normally, Crabbe and Goyle would have been close behind, carrying
      another dozen themselves. But, Draco had them busy collecting
      intelligence on "Plain Jane".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The name was clearly a pseudonym, and the circumstances of their
      arrival were suspect in the highest. That alone would have called
      for a cursory amount of research, and stymied as they were by the
      complete lack of conclusive information, Draco likely would have
      called things off. But Draco was both intrigued and concerned by
      the way that the older Slytherins were either transparently
      obsequious or gave her a very wide berth, causing the majority of
      Slytherin House to follow suit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nobody seemed willing to actually talk about the subject, but
      from what Draco could piece together from the tittles and jots of
      various snippets of conversation and oblique references, there had
      been some sort of <em class="calibre7">incident</em> involving Reese Belka, a first
      year, and a dark hallway. "Plain Jane" had apparently interceded in
      some way, although the nature of the intercession was entirely
      unclear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What was clear, however, was that Reese Belka made it
      conspicuously sure from that point on to never be present in the
      same room as the pink haired newcomer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The whole thing stank to Merlin of Potter. Of course, the fact
      that Potter had apparently become quite friendly with "Tisiphone"
      and "Megaera" only furthered the suspicion. Those would likely be
      pseudonyms as well. Draco's father had seen to it that he was well
      studied in all things related to wizardkind. And because so many of
      the ancient Muggle myths had their roots in Magical phenomenon, he
      was familiar with the legends of the ancient world, including The
      Furies, The Kindly Ones, The Eumenides, The Erinyes: Tisiphone,
      Megaera, and Alecto.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wizard families often got cute with the symbolism behind their
      names. But a trio? Draco knew that his mother and father had been
      trying for some time to produce an heir before Draco was born, an
      exercise which clearly at one point resulted in heartbreak: one day
      when Draco was seven, he was examining the sculptures on the Malfoy
      family Oblatorium and noticed one that was smaller than all the
      rest. A small, blue, green and yellow striped bonbon, still in its
      wrapper was mounted lovingly between Mother's golden harp and the
      empty plaque that represented himself. He had asked Father who that
      was, and the elder Malfoy replied in a shaky voice that he would
      tell him Draco when he was older, when he could understand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco could not quite remember how old he was when the
      comprehension of its meaning dawned upon him, but he never asked
      his father about it again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Their story was not an uncommon one either. Not every family was
      as sloppily fertile as the Weasleys. In fact, most weren't. Having
      three children wasn't exactly rare, but it was hardly something
      that you could count on, certainly not enough to feel comfortable
      giving two children names out of an obvious trio. If the third
      never materialized, it would be a living testament to your family's
      failure to perpetuate the blood of Atlantis.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were certainly a good many reasons <em class="calibre7">not</em> to be
      skeptical of their names. He tried to think like Harry taught him
      to. He asked himself, what the "prior probability" of a family
      naming their children after a trio like this, versus the
      probability that a trio of witches was using assumed names, and he
      determined the latter was more likely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Had Harry been there, he would have pointed out that Draco had
      misunderstood and misapplied the principles of Bayesian reasoning.
      He also would've pointed out that Rationality is about winning, and
      that Draco's conclusion was the correct one, regardless of how he
      came to. But as it were, Draco was unsure of the certainty of
      either of those truths.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And so it was that Crabbe and Goyle were putting together their
      considerable lack of wit to the task of investigation, rather than
      to one which they would likely be more suited: hauling heavy
      objects.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Having grown frustrated with the lack of progress into his
      investigation of Hermione, he decided instead to look further into
      the mystery of Plain Jane himself. He knew that one of the older
      Slytherins had offered the use of their private quarters and so
      that considerably narrowed down the possibilities of where he could
      find her. If this girl was, indeed, going to be the next queen of
      Slytherin, Draco Malfoy would make sure that he was, at minimum, on
      her radar.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two of the three most lavishly appointed rooms had their doors
      open, their occupants sitting at desks writing letters or reading
      books. The third office, which belonged to Robert Jugson, was
      closed. He drew in a breath, held his shoulders high, and rapped on
      the door. Authoritatively, but not too assertive. His father had
      taught him the art of knocking in such a way as to communicate,
      <em class="calibre7">I am coming into this room, and it is only by my forbearance
      that I am alerting you to this fact beforehand.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come in!" A delicate, soft voice called from behind the finally
      inlaid, heavy oak door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco opened it and was immediately taken aback by what he saw.
      The bed and desk has been pushed aside to one wall, and the wall
      containing the window was lined with… were those… Nests? A family
      of baby rabbits had cozied up into a small bed of straw and a few
      fat blue jays were twittering around, keeping close to her, until
      one landed on her finger. Meanwhile, an Abyssinian cat with
      spectacularly red fur slinked around, its tail weaving in and out
      between her legs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But what shocked him the most was that, coiled around her arm,
      was a powerful, glistening snake, banded with bluish black rings
      starkly contrasting the white body. He would recognize that snake
      anywhere, the snake that his Patronus was formed after.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A Blue Krait. What she held in her hands was obscenely
      dangerous.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And she was <em class="calibre7">talking</em> to it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not words, but breathy hisses,</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Sweet slithering snakes, she was a Parseltongue.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pardon me Madame Plein but…" He had to interrupt his own formal
      greeting. "Are you quite sure that you want to be holding that
      snake? I'm not sure if you realize how dangerous it is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She let out a small giggle. "Oh, this little guy? He wouldn't
      hurt a fly." She gently crouched down to the ground. Her voice was
      so soft and yet he could clearly hear every word she said. Except,
      that is, when she whispered in Parseltongue to the snake, who then
      uncoiled himself from her arm, and began slithering towards Draco.
      "See? He's just friendly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco now understood why the whole of Slytherin house was
      terrified of her. She played the game perfectly. There is no
      rudeness, no insult behind her failure to return his greeting, for
      he had not actually greeted her. And now, here he was, scared
      stiff, plain as day, and faced with an awful choice: put himself in
      mortal danger, or insult a verified Parselmouth by doubting her
      control over her thralls.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">If you don't like the rules, play a different game</em>,
      Father had always told him. He would not stand here, shaking in
      fear as she asserted her dominance over him. Contrary to every bit
      of common sense in him, he changed the rules, kneeled down, and
      held his hand out to the approaching snake.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Forgive my rudeness, Madame Plein. I am Draco, eldest heir of
      the Most Noble and Ancient House of Malfoy, son of Lucius the
      Younger, son of Abraxas, descendant of Armand," The honorifics were
      an ancient, almost forgotten tradition among Slytherins, although
      not forgotten among those families whose bloodlines truly mattered.
      The guest would introduce themselves, their house, their lineage.
      The host would then send forth the serpent of the house to greet
      the guest, at which point you inquired as to its name, "And how
      shall I address this most honored, most august Blue Krait that
      defends your house?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh him? His name is Nathaniel, but his friends just call him
      Nate."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He bowed deeply to the snake as per tradition. He did not have a
      snake of his own, at least not a physical one, so he pointed his
      wand at the ground and whispered, "<em class="calibre7">Expecto Patronum</em>". His
      own Krait, made of gossamer strands of ephemeral silk, emerged from
      his wand and approached its physical counterpart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Greetings, Nathaniel," Draco moved his eyes up to his owner.
      "And what house does he serve?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She had followed all the customs up until this point. Maybe this
      was a test? Maybe she would only reveal her true identity to
      someone well-versed in the ancient customs in the ancient ways. She
      cocked her head, and Draco eagerly awaited her response.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, my name is Fluttershy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh... what?" Draco was thoroughly nonplussed and replied
      without thinking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fluttershy," she said, only slightly louder. "It's lovely to
      meet you. Your snake is so beautiful. I think he and Nate will make
      great friends. Isn't that right Nate?" In a thoroughly undignified
      manner, she got down on her knees and held her arms outstretched,
      at which point the Blue Krait quickly slithered over and snuggled
      up in her arms. She stroked his head, made some cooing noises and
      spoke to it in English, "You're just a shy little guy, aren't you?
      It was so brave of you to leave your lever and go meet a stranger.
      You're a brave little one, yes you are!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That… That was not according to the tradition. That was not…
      That wasn't anything at all. <em class="calibre7">What was that, even?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She turned to him. "It's very nice to meet you Draco Malfoy. Was
      there anything I could help you with?" She asked in an eager
      voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If Draco had not been thoroughly on edge, he would actually
      think that she sounded… Sincere. What was she playing at? What was
      her angle?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was… Well, I had heard some rumors… About a certain incident
      in the hallway involving an older student… And a younger
      student…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She looked up, as if in thought, and then it struck her. "Oh
      yes, I remember that. There was an older girl who was being very
      unfriendly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And… What did you do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I just talked to her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You just… Talked to her. That's it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She gave him a soft nod, and let out a quiet "Mh hmm," in
      affirmation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't mean to pry, but… Reese Belka hasn't been the same
      since you 'just talked to her'. Are you sure that's all you
      did?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She smiled, serenely. "Oh yes. My friend said that I can be
      very… Persuasive, when I want to be."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She looked at his eyes when she spoke, and on the word
      "persuasive", her voice took on an ever so slight, almost
      undetectable edge to it. But what startled Draco more was the brief
      flash across her eyes; he had seen that look, before. It was the
      look Harry had when he went to his dark place. It lasted but for a
      fraction of a second, and disappeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I can only handle one Potter.</em> Draco thought to
      himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was spared the dilemma of how to respond to her remark by the
      sudden din of noise from the hallways. Millicent Bulstrode came
      charging gamely from the Slytherin common room shouting, "DOOMED!
      We are doomed, we're all doomed!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco stepped out of Fluttershy's room briefly to look at the
      source of the commotion. He could hear her clearly from where he
      stood. "<em class="calibre7">It's Professor Quirrell!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A sudden air of attentiveness, as of long-standing disputes
      about to be settled. "Well, finally," someone said, as Millicent
      tried to catch her breath. "He's only got, what, a few days left to
      go bad?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Two days," said the seventh-year who was running the betting
      pool.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's gotten a lot better suddenly and he's going to summon the
      first-years for our Defense final! By surprise! In fifty minutes!
      "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Blaise Zabini rolled her eyes and went back to his reading.
      "Exams are over. We already got our marks back,"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He got special dispensation from the Ministry to give a final
      exam late!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A Defense final?" Pansy said blankly. "But Professor Quirrell
      doesn't give exams."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">It's a battle!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Zabini was suddenly interested, again. "But, what about Miss
      Granger?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Granger? Who cares about that Mudbloo-" Pansy's words were cut
      off by a percussive smack to the back of her head, delivered by
      Reese Belka, who looked paler than usual.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have respect, Parkinson!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco was already slowly backing out of Fluttershy's room, and
      was about to break into a run before he turned back to the pink
      haired girl and quickly said, "It was a pleasure to meet you,
      Madame Shy, but I must be going, now."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
