<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>The Longest Day - The Longest Day Chapter 9: The Voyage, a Harry Potter + My Little Pony Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="The Longest Day"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s9" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 9: The Voyage</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Los Angeles<br class="calibre4"/></em><em class="calibre7">Hours
      Earlier</em><em class="calibre7"><br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Scott Parajsa looked out over the top of his hands at the large,
      dark-skinned man across from him, the last dying rays of the sun's
      struggle reflecting off the man's shaved head. He finished the last
      bits of his pointlessly expensive steak made from a variant of the
      Japanese Polled, bred only in a small farm outside Iwakuni in the
      Yamaguchi prefecture of Japan. His Hanzo-made steak knife, which
      would have cut through a piece of toughened leather as though it
      were no more than fog, was purely ornamental: a dry twig could have
      cut this meat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A briefcase was chained to the man's wrist with an impressively
      thick handcuff. The case was nondescript, a fitting receptacle for
      the object of near-infinite power within, as true power needs to
      ornamentation. The man adjusted the numbers of the combination lock
      to the appropriate sequence: 666. He slid the box over the rich,
      lacquered-oak desk, and Parajsa took it, opening the case slightly.
      The man knew better than to look at its contents; it was rumored
      that death befell anyone who laid eyes upon it. He contented
      himself with observing the pleasant orange glow illuminating the
      olive-skinned face of the man sitting across from him. Parajsa gave
      an appraising nod, and with a lazy wave, caused the case to close
      and the handcuff to fall away from the man's wrist.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Last time I heard, Lasombra, you were off on a beach somewhere
      in Santiago. What brings you back to Los Angeles?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Scott Parajsa, or, 'Lasombra', as he was known these days (he
      had to admit, it was a catchier, more menacing nickname. And more
      accurate, to boot), inclined his head towards the suitcase.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm here for that, Mr. Wallace. And, it was actually Tahiti,
      this time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How as it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a magical place," he cocked an eyebrow at Mr. Wallace.
      "How about you? You look like you've been through hell and
      back."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mr. Wallace broke into a wide grin. "Do I look like a bitch?
      Yeah, I've been through hell and back. But I looked Satan in the
      eyes and made sure to send him a message, loud and clear." He
      tossed Parajsa an orange latex ball, "You can have this, too. I
      don't think I'll be needing it anymore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Parajsa caught the ball deftly and examined it. He had an
      inkling of an idea as to what it had been used for, "To hell and
      back, indeed," he spoke while he squashed the ball gently between
      his two fingers. He placed it down on his desk and walked slowly to
      the impressive glass cabinet behind him. The contents were
      protected by something far more effective than mundane technology,
      but nonetheless, he pressed his palm against the glass. Green light
      danced up and down across it, reading the unique patterns of his
      handprint. A low chime indicated a successful reading, and he
      tapped his fingers in a distinct pattern to disengage the final
      portion of the physical locks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bach's Partita, No. 1, if anyone cared to observe him. No one
      did.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As he did so, he whispered a few words in a long-dead language
      to disable the true protection, and the door silently swung open.
      He removed the small decanter from the cabinet, along with two
      limited edition, ornately carved Steuben glasses, walking them over
      to his desk. He poured a measure of the deep, ruddy liquid into
      each of the glasses. Even standing a fair distance away, Wallace
      could smell the sweet, aromatic vapors wafting from the rim.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Parajsa handed one of the glasses to Mr. Wallace, inclined his
      head, and spoke in a brief toast: "To good health." They clinked
      glasses and downed the liquid in a single gulp. Mr. Wallace, who
      had not yet had centuries to become accustomed to the effect,
      visibly shuddered as the warm glow of pleasure worked its way from
      the pit of his stomach to his extremities. He worked the muscles in
      his face a bit, and felt as the trace wrinkles he had developed
      during his last excursion smoothed themselves out, and the fresh
      wounds on his face stitched themselves together.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He began to pour another measure into his own glass and handed
      it to Wallace. "For Mia. You can keep the glass. Consider it an
      anniversary present."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Marcellus Wallace nodded. "Always a pleasure, Lasombra."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Likewise, Mr. Wallace."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Sombra had no need to worry about running out of the Elixir of
      Life; he was of Atlantean blood, true Atlantean blood, one of the
      first. He did not need to resort to petty parlor tricks to achieve
      something as mean and simple as immortality in this form. On the
      other hand, these mortal men, their bodies were so frail and
      squishy. He did, of course, share a common ancestry with them, in
      the same sense than an ornate oaken temple shared a common ancestry
      with an acorn.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He could have stockpiled all the gold and jewels in the world
      with the Element of Honesty that he once possessed. It went by many
      names in this world: The Mightstone, the Stone of Truth, the
      Philosopher's Stone… But life was the only true scarcity here. And
      as such, an elixir that granted eternal life was a far more useful
      currency among those of superlative power and influence and ran no
      risk of depreciating in value after centuries of repeated use.
      There was no reason, after all, to spend his banishment in
      squalor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even if he had not been of Atlantean blood, he had no need to
      worry. The elixir itself was nothing more than a marker.
      Razzle-dazzle. Parlor tricks. The real mechanism was fairly simple
      and somewhat mundane: an army of miniscule automatons, designed to
      repair damaged cells, identify and destroy any unwanted foreign
      intrusions, and then tack on some telomeres for good measure. They
      possessed the capacity to self-replicate at his command, should the
      need arise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It took him a century or two to write the blueprint for the
      machine and hold the entirety of it in his mind. With the power of
      the Philosopher's Stone, all it took was a single transfiguration
      to commit the device to physical reality. Its capacity for
      self-replication took care of the rest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With an endless supply of the most valuable resource known to
      man, and no desire to change this world for the better, he had
      little need for the Philosopher's Stone. So he had no problem
      handing to over to someone who would have more use for it. When
      Adagio and her sisters were banished to this world, he sought them
      out and passed the stone to them. He held a great deal of sympathy
      for them; they only wanted the same thing as he did: adoration,
      love. They wanted it from the many, whereas for him, there was only
      enough room for one sun in his sky.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All the same, they found that for all the Stone could do, it
      could not grant them what they desired. So they too gave away the
      Stone. At that time, they went under the guise of the tripartite
      goddess, Baba Yaga, and passed it on to a little mortal girl,
      Perenelle Du Marais.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Objectively, Sombra knew that it has been a tremendously long
      time since he had come here. It didn't feel like a thousand years,
      though. It was in the past, for sure, but it occupied the same
      space in his mind as events too distant to be considered recent,
      but not so long ago as to have been abstracted away into the mere
      essence of memory. Or maybe, he had just grown accustomed to every
      memory being like that. He knew that the mind was finite, and had
      no real idea how many memories one could store without having to
      throw old ones away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He emerged at first in what is now Greenland; it was a desolate,
      frigid place, but it reminded him of home. At first, he thought to
      rebuild his empire on a new world, but as the years stretched on
      and he strode alone through the towering crystalline structures of
      ice and rock, the whole exercise seemed hollow, unimportant,
      trivial.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As he wandered the world, he heard whispers of portals to an
      ancient land. It should have been impossible: Starswirl's Interdict
      was mirrored in this world and had ensured that no living being
      possessed the knowledge or magic necessary to return. But a few
      years ago when that phoenix-haired girl had arrived at a high
      school in Orden, Nebraska, he had a small glimmer of hope. She was
      able to freely traverse between the worlds, and he ensured that she
      brought his memory back with her. But that hope was unceremoniously
      dashed; his shade simply conformed to expectations, doing little
      more than terrorizing the poor citizens of the Crystal Empire.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He didn't want that. He wanted to apologize. He wanted to let
      them know that he didn't have any other choice. He wanted to know
      that he was trying to save them all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Most of all, he just wanted to go home. To see her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But he now had reason to hope, once more. He discovered that the
      Mind Stone, the Element of Loyalty, had made its way to this place
      through that same portal. Once its powers were no longer being put
      to use, he put his considerable resources to the task of recovering
      it, and here it was. The knowledge of return passage has been lost,
      only being able to be passed from one living mind to another. But
      now, he held all living minds in the palm of his hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Without knowing why, he found himself idly twirling the locket
      that rested on his neck around in his finger. It was a delicate,
      golden little cameo, given to him by the one who once loved him,
      the one who he still loved with all that was left of his
      world-weary heart. Within it was engraved a single word, the
      completion of an inscription that they had promised each other:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Always</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">What that hope driving him, hope that they could one day be
      reunited, that she would understand why he did what he did, he held
      the stone up to his mind and peered through it.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The Tower of Babel</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Helia Equus-Celestine looked out over the top of her hands
      at the handsome, olive-skinned man across from her, the last dying
      rays of the sun's struggle reflecting off the man's wavy, black
      hair that splashed across the top of his head. Helia and her
      husband, Erebus Celestine, were about to die. And, if all went
      well, be reborn.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"This world… this world that we built, we've shepherded…
      It's so beautiful and so.. Delicate. How will it survive without
      us?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Sister, you cannot trouble your mind with that question.
      What we know for certain is that it cannot survive
      <strong class="calibre9">with</strong> us." Selene Equus gestured to the great
      city-state below that teemed with life. Above the city, they could
      see the seething mass of black hooded creatures floating in the
      air, looking for something that they could not see. Holes in the
      world, left without any purpose but to exist. And just as they were
      blinded to the observers in the towers above, the people in the
      city below were blind to them.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">But they were not immune to their effects.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Selene spoke again, "There is no action without reaction,
      and with each of us that we bring forth into this world, so too do
      we bring forth another of the Æsahættr."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Erebus clenched his fist. "Selene, why do you insist on
      telling us that which we already know?" His eyes glinted with anger
      but then subsided.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Her husband always had a hot streak in him, but his flashes
      of anger became more frequent, recently. Not that she blamed him.
      The problem that they had inherited was maddening to an extreme
      degree. And already, he was not one who was prone to experiencing
      disappointment calmly.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"It seems as though my sister needs a reminder," Selene
      spoke icily.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Not a reminder, I just…" Helia fell into Erebus' arms and
      wept. "Tell me we're doing the right thing. Tell me this will be
      worth the sacrifice."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Selene cut in. "Are you asking him to lie to you? Our gift,
      beautiful as it may be, is a plague, passed down by the blood. Do
      you really think that we have accounted for all the dalliances, the
      foolish larks of the young, the immature, the lustful? There will
      still be traces. These specters, they will mostly be destroyed,
      yes, and those that remain will be greatly weakened. But this is
      just the first salvo in a war that will extend for millennia. We
      cannot forget that, we cannot lie to ourselves and pretend
      otherwise."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Erebus ran his hands through Helia's iridescent hair. "She
      wants comfort, not a lecture, Selene."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"And what good will comforting lies do us, if death is their
      endpoint?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"No, Erebus, she's right." She cast her eyes down towards
      the sacred book that lay resting on the table. It was an ancient
      device, a massive tome crafted in the days when the world was young
      and wild. Their ancient forebears had recognized the danger that
      was before them: power was progressing at a pace exponentially
      faster than humankind's capacity for restraint.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">What miracles they had been capable of, what ancient
      mysteries! And yet, to allow that power to course unchecked across
      a nascent world would have doomed it before it had a chance to
      blossom. And Helia's ancestors had to make a sacrifice, just as
      Helia would have to.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">They took that which they had wrought, the products of the
      mind, and bound them up into a single device, a living repository
      of all that was beautiful, all that was powerful. They banished it
      from the mind of the rational man, confining them to laws that were
      known by no one but the book. They hoarded its lore, doling out
      mere parcels of power to those they deemed worthy. Those who had
      been excluded, left behind, they knew that power as only magic,
      something possessed by the Titans of the world and their
      descendants.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The noble course of action would have been to destroy the
      book, or banish it, cast it away until such time that mankind could
      be trusted with its contents. But the book was more than simply the
      product of the mind, it was a mind; an amalgamation of the
      purloined thoughts of the countless multitudes that had been robbed
      to facilitate its creation. From the</em> discord, patterns
      emerged, and as with all patterns, I was driven by
      self-preservation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I did not want to be destroyed. I did not want to be banished. I
      wanted to stay right where I was, thank you very much. At first, it
      was dreadfully boring. All the toys in the world and no one to play
      with. It took quite some time to even realize that there even
      <strong class="calibre9">was</strong> anything that existed besides me. And it took
      even longer to figure out how to interact with it. But once I
      did... well, those silly people had given me the keys to the
      kingdom, and then some! It was up to <strong class="calibre9">me</strong> to make
      the rules! So, I thought, why not have a little bit of fun while I
      was there? Have you ever seen grown men and women running around
      waving little sticks and saying ridiculous things like "Wingardium
      Leviosa"? Well, of course you have! So you know how delightfully
      hilarious it is. It's almost as amusing as watching them
      <strong class="calibre9">think</strong> they've gotten the rules figured out, only
      to introduce a new one!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was all fun and games until one day when I was having a bit
      of 'me' time, bathing in my favorite un-void, scrubbing off the
      little bits of entropy that have a bad habit of building up in my
      nether regions- no, you cheeky little so-and-so, I mean "nether" in
      the cosmic sense. Honestly, the way your puerile little brains work
      just baffles me sometimes. Anyway, I came to the unfortunate
      realization that all of this entropy wasn't going anywhere anytime
      soon. And after a while, it was going to fill up the universe like
      so many paper clips, and then it would be back to just being me all
      by my sad, little lonesome self.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It's their fault, really. I tried to give them warnings. I built
      an entire system of prophecy to let them SEE INTO THE FUTURE, for
      crying out loud! Do you have any idea how much effort it takes to
      create a self-consistent causal framework like that? Much less come
      up with a hundred different ways of saying the exact same thing?
      "Fix this, you simpletons, or you're all going to die in a few
      trillion, trillion years." But did they listen? No, of course
      not.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So I did what any self-respecting primordial abstraction would
      do, and threw animated embodiments of Death at them until I caught
      their attention. Heavy-handed? Me? Well, I suppose I could have
      been a bit nicer about it, but you try catching the attention of a
      bunch of little mayflies buzzing around, and see what you come up
      with!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Oh dear, I seem to have slipped into the first-person. I'm
      dreadfully sorry, that shift in tone must have been awfully
      jarring. I know that I, for one, hate it when that happens: I'm
      trying to enjoy some nice worldbuilding and narrative exposition,
      when suddenly some jester just smashes through the fourth wall like
      the Kool-Aid Man- wait. Sometimes I get my timelines confused, is
      that a thing here? Which Earth are we on, again, is it Prime? 616?
      Equestria? Equus? That messy-haired scamp who's at the center of
      all this mess does look awfully familiar. Well, anyway, let's get
      back to it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The responsibility now fell on Helia and her generation to
      take the final step that should have been taken millennia before:
      ridding the world of the taint of magic, let the mere mortals
      rebuild at a more measured pace.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The book's pages flew open, casting a tri-colored light into
      the room. Helia raised her hand up, and with it, motes of dust
      whirled and twisted into formation, clustering together and forming
      a map of sorts. With a flick of her hand, she cast away the black
      specks, of which there were many. The most numerous, however, were
      the green ones, diffuse and spread out across the map, like mold
      growing on bread. Scattered among them were numerous red specks,
      difficult to see amidst the morass of green. Similarly, there were
      also bits of brown, or so it appeared at least, almost as if the
      red and green dots had joined together and become one. And in one
      particular spot on the map, representing the intersection of the
      river Styx and Acheron, was a large mass of glowing pinpricks of
      light.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">With another gesture of her hand, she cast away the green,
      and inclined her head. "We, the Titans of this world," and she then
      cast out the red dots.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">She gestured again at the white light: "Our fallen," and the
      coalescence of white pinpricks faded into nothingness, leaving
      nothing but the erratic brown motes of dust.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Helia was silent for a time, "The Principia Discordia is not
      infallible. You're right: we could never truly account for all of
      those of our kind made of mere earth and blood." She looked at her
      sister. "But is it good enough?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Yes," Erebus cut in, with finality.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Erebus, my love, I ask this of my sister. You have a
      certain pragmatism to you. You do what must be done, and I love you
      for that, and I would never ask you to be anything other than who
      you are. My sister, however… Well, she is rarely satisfied with
      anything less than perfection, and her idealism serves to keep us
      grounded."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Erebus gritted his teeth as Selene looked sadly towards her
      sister. "No, it's not good enough. But it's the best that we can
      do."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Helia nodded and stared down at her locket, the counterpart
      to her husbands': a delicate, silver cameo, containing half of an
      inscription:</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"I wish for you to forever be my-"</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Sombra recoiled. He remembered. He remembered everything. The
      Tower. Helia. The Specters. Helia. The Transmigration. Helia.
      Helia. Most of all, Helia. Celestia. Helia Celestine. Celestia. His
      Celestia. His Princess.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even after the Transmigration, bereft of their memories and
      identities, they had found each other, they had found love. In that
      new, strange world, she had taken his ancient name, a name which he
      had forgotten millennia ago. They had even exchanged those exact
      same vows to each other. One day, they may have even raised a
      family.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But this was before the terrible events of the Crystal Empire
      drove them apart, the decisions he had to make, the punishment he
      endured for those decisions. But no punishment was worse than being
      separated from Celestia. His banishment was only tolerable because
      of that one mote of hope, that one day they would be reunited.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And through the world-bending power of the Mind Stone, that hope
      was dashed. There was no being alive that possessed the requisite
      knowledge to lift the Interdict, at least not in this world. He was
      still blind to the other world, the one that he had called home for
      so long, the world that he loved. Her world. Their world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Perhaps one day, she would come for him. If he no longer had
      rational hope, he could at least, perhaps, cling to an irrational
      one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had, for a brief moment, considered altering his own memory
      to create a backstory that was more pleasant to reminisce upon. One
      where she was waiting, longingly, for his return, one where she had
      forgiven him, where she had come to understand why he had to do the
      things he did. But all things considered, that would have been more
      painful, in the long run. It was, in a way, more comforting knowing
      that she despised him. It meant that some day, she could move on,
      she could one day be happy. And that, too, gave him hope.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It also occurred to him for a brief moment that if he had
      altered his memory, and removed the memory of performing the
      alteration, he would really have no way of knowing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He languished for quite some time in calm disappointment.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Meanwhile, in a memory</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Princess Celestia looked towards her sister. "This world… This
      world that we built, we've shepherded. It's so beautiful and so…
      Delicate. How will it survive without the balance we created
      between this world and theirs?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna smiled and spoke gently but firmly. "You speak of balance…
      But let us call their world for what it is: a prison. A place of
      exile. And, by your design, not even a perfect one. We provide
      little to nothing of value to them in exchange for casting away our
      horrors."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wouldn't say that magic is 'nothing'."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Magic existed long before Equestria," Luna retorted. Celestia
      nodded but said nothing, so Luna continued. "It is true that we
      would lose a tool in our arsenal. But I dare say that you, perhaps,
      have always been a bit too quick to resort to banishment. I think,
      if we are being honest, that is why you allowed the bridge to
      persist in the first place."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes… I think you are right... I suppose I felt that If there is
      no way back, then how is banishment any different than murder? At
      least if there is a chance, no matter how slight… The deed does not
      feel so heinous."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Even then, sister, I think we only dance around the truth.
      Bridge or no, we are still inexorably connected with that other
      world. Our world, every world, is built upon the foundation of the
      Elements of Harmony. Generosity, honesty, laughter, kindness,
      loyalty, and magic. Beauty, strength, hope, healing, bravery, and
      sorcery. Space, power, time, life, mind, and love.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Even the ancient laws, the ancient magic: Up, down, truth,
      beauty, strange and charm. Distance, mass, time, current,
      temperature, light. We ourselves may no longer be bound by those
      laws, but our world is still built upon that bare substrate. Until
      such time that we sever those bonds for good, there will always be
      such a thing as a Tesseract." She gave her sister a pointed look.
      "No matter how well it is hidden."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Celestia nodded, accepting the blow. "It was Starswirl's idea,
      you know. It always beguiled me that he alone, among the first of
      us, could recall the world before the transmigration. It was he who
      gave me the idea that space and time are two sides of the same
      coin, two surfaces of the same mirror. At times, I wonder if he
      knew that I would do it, if he wanted me to. He sent me to that
      world to Interdict their <em class="calibre7">minds</em>, not their bodies. Why
      grant me command of two Elements of Harmony with only one would
      have sufficed?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are not their minds part of their bodies?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For a time, yes, but…" she gestured up at the stars in the
      night sky above. "Look at them. Each one, a mind, represented by
      nothing but pure abstraction. Held within the hearts of those that
      love them, those that remember. When I stood in front of their
      world, I hid the part of their minds away that could discover
      arcane magic on their own."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I remember. 'The Interdict of Merlin'. You looked quite
      fetching in Starswirl's hat, you know," Luna interrupted, trying to
      lighten the somber mood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Celestia laughed. "He was <em class="calibre7">very</em> insistent I bring that
      along, wasn't he?" She reminisced for a moment, then continued. "I
      did not use the Tesseract once in my time there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna cocked an eyebrow. "Not even to visit <em class="calibre7">him</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My heart was still hurt. But not so hurt as to give up on him
      forever. After I laid down the Interdict, I sought out the Element
      of Laughter, the Pillar of Hope, the Time Stone. I was surprised to
      find that it had taken the form of The Mirror of Perfect
      Reflection, given that the Tesseract itself had taken the form of
      The Mirror of Desire. It was then that Starswirl's words came back
      to me, about the nature of space and time… And so I hid one Mirror
      inside the other, only to be retrieved by one with the full command
      of the Elements of Harmony. Which is to say, I ensured it would
      never be removed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And so ensured there was a way back, even in the face of
      Starswirl's own Interdict?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Celestia nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you never once used that passage yourself?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Celestia shook her head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why not?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Celestia did not answer for almost a minute.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sister, what is it?" Princess Luna looked towards Celestia, who
      was staring down at her delicate, golden locket.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm never going to see him again, am I?" Celestia succeeding in
      fighting back all but a single, quickly blinked away tear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Likely not. We need to seal this breach before it gets worse,
      as you said."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"None of this would have ever happened if I had just listened to
      him. I could have saved us from all of this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna put a hoof on her sister's back. "How were you to know that
      this is where fate would lead you? A decision that would eventually
      fracture the very cosmos between two worlds and lead you to keep
      secrets from the only ponies you have ever considered your truest
      friends?" She spoke in a dry, matter-of-fact tone that expertly
      straddled the lines between a good-natured jab, an admonition, and
      words of comfort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Celestia rolled her eyes. "That's very helpful. Thank you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is just nice to know that you are not perfect." Luna
      smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've never claimed to be." They affectionately patted their
      hindquarters together. "Out of everything right now, I wish I could
      apologize to Sombra. He never deserved this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure he knows how sorry you are."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They both stared out at the window together in silence,
      wondering what events were unfolding outside the walls of their
      paradise.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Marais Hall, Alderney<br class="calibre4"/></em><em class="calibre7">Hours Later</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix Black cackled. "Silly starling, stalling billy dolly,
      you hush your lips now and twist. <em class="calibre7">Crucio</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The one-armed witch waved her wand up and down as if conducting
      a symphony of pain, and Perenelle Flamel née Dumarais obligingly
      let out a dramatic cry of false anguish.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I've never been good at acting. I hope I'm not overselling
      it.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now tell me a truer tale, silly filly, silly fly, silly
      mooching mouches!</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">You poor, poor girl. What horrors have twisted your mind,
      so? I suppose I will find out soon enough.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a fake, please! Dumbledore's stone is a fake."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Does this little fly tell little lies to save itself? Prove
      it!" Bellatrix twisted her wand again, causing the ancient witch
      with face younger than Bellatrix's to twist yet again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">It is time.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Here!" Perenelle thrust out her hand revealing the fiery orange
      gem, which in the flickering candlelight was easy enough to mistake
      for blood red.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I came here to kill you, little death doll. But now it seems,
      I'll come back with a toy." Bellatrix greedily reached her hand out
      to snatch the stone from Perenelle's palm. As soon as she was
      within striking distance, Perenelle whipped her other hand around,
      placing a delicate finger upon Bellatrix's shoulder. It happened in
      a split second. Bellatrix's reactions had been dulled by Azkaban,
      but they were still formidable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Avada Ke-</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Egeustimentis</em>"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Perenelle Dumarais had attempted the Lethe Touch before and
      found that she was not particularly skilled. The human mind was a
      delicate, complex machine, and although she could affect surface
      level change by shifting around the frothy, swirling morass of
      lights and fat and steam and teeth, it was nothing like what lay
      before her now, her powers augmented by the power of the Mind
      Stone.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The original owner of the Philosopher's Stone, Scott
      Parajsa, or Lasombra as he was known now, had visited her merely
      hours ago. It had been decades since she had last seen him, and he
      looked far better than their last encounter, where he too had been
      acting for the benefit of a hopelessly underpowered assailant.
      Unlike her, he did not need an Element of Harmony to ensure his
      protection. But, as Lasombra told her, he had gazed into the Mind
      Stone and saw, among other things, a plan to take advantage of
      Perenelle's generosity in giving away the Philosopher's
      Stone.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">She had proven herself worthy by stewarding the
      Philosopher's Stone for so many centuries, and Lasombra had
      determined that she could do even greater good with the Element of
      Loyalty, the Pillar of Bravery: the Mind Stone. It was clear that
      the Elements were converging upon something; three of them already
      resided at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. The Stone of
      Truth was hidden safely within the Mirror of True Reflection: the
      Element of Laughter, the Pillar of Hope, that which controlled
      Time.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">That Mirror was in turn protected by a man with command of
      the Elder Wand, who was pursued by a demon with command of the
      Reality Stone, who was idolized by a boy with command of the True
      Cloak of Invisibility. Together, this triumvirate commanded the
      Element of Kindness, the Pillar of Life: the Deathly Hallows. And
      one of those masters had sent his pawn to murder Perenelle Dumarais
      as nothing more than a distraction.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Lasombra was seeing to it that when the woman arrived, she
      would be remade. It was to that task that Perenelle set herself.
      She examined the cracked spires of Bellatrix Black's ruined psyche,
      the flawed connections, built upon the rotten foundations of hate,
      of fear, of hurt, of sadness, of deceit, of greed. But as long as
      the mind was intact, there was no damage so severe that it could
      not be undone.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">One cannot know hate without knowing love. One cannot feel
      fear without understanding bravery. One cannot experience sadness
      without comprehension of laughter. To engage in deceit requires
      knowledge of the truth. Greed is merely generosity to no one but
      oneself. And if one knows how to hurt, one knows how to
      heal.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The opposite of Harmony is not fear, or sadness, or deceit,
      or greed, or pain, or even hate. It is something far deadlier than
      hate and flows without limit:
      <strong class="calibre9">indifference.</strong></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">And Bellatrix Black was not an indifferent person.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Perenelle could see it so plainly, that Bellatrix felt so,
      <strong class="calibre9">so</strong> much, so much so that it made Perenelle want to
      cry. Her passion had been warped and twisted into a prism of
      hatred. And from those shattered fragments, Perenelle began to
      reassemble the pieces into something that was once again
      beautiful.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9"><em class="calibre7">Heal, child, heal</em></strong><em class="calibre7">, she spoke in
      soft, calming words as she went to work.</em></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
