<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>24. For Summer - For Summer, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="24. For Summer"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">A/N: this is a what-if based on the events of Chapter 88 of the
      marvelous fic Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality, so the
      rights belong to JK Rowling and LessWrong, respectively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There are SPOILERS for that chapter, if you haven't guessed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">…okay, shoot me, I had to write this.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">When Harry's Patronus left Hermione's side, she was already
      informed of the situation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was already running from a very big, very ugly mountain
      troll down a deserted corridor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Already winded, but not yet panicking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Because there was help coming, and she only had to keep ahead of
      the troll – why, she could fly away if she so wished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She snorted, because really, how do you get Hermione Granger on
      a broom if not by sending a monster after her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">and they had to talk about his Patronus sometime
      soon</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">But the broom failed her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And everything else, which she could spare breathe to take out
      of her bag, failed her, too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Hogwarts was so unbelievably, ridiculously empty.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And bright daylight poured in through high, narrow windows on
      one side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was then that fear burst in her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">faster</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Because back in September, playing at being a Scientist,
      Hermione wondered why the third most perfect killing machine in all
      of Nature could be frozen by something as mundane as a ray of a
      totally non-magical star. (No, Mr. Potter, I don't have proof!)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As to why the ray shouldn't have been reflected by the Moon or
      any other planet before hitting the target, well, that was another
      question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And she had been proud of actually thinking of that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">need air</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">slow down</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">no time</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Why does a non-magical something influence a magical something?
      And not in Potions making, which seldom used living things and
      never – sapient ones? (To her knowledge). She resolved to answer
      that one when she graduated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">never</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Okay, speculated then Professor Granger, maybe trolls hadn't
      been so vulnerable from the start, but a powerful Mage cursed their
      whole breed – not a smart one, but certainly powerful; though maybe
      that was the best he could do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">correction</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">maybe he was Bad and designed trolls for night-time
      attacks</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">maybe he was</em> really <em class="calibre8">Bad and that was the best he
      could do</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">and someone made improvements</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">just for her?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">or were all trolls now sun-proof?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">stumble</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">wall</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">skinned knees</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">go</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She had meant to discuss it with Harry. There was little info in
      the library. Harry was busy. There was homework!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And she had told herself that magic didn't make sense.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione felt her legs folding beneath her, threw out an arm not
      to slam into another wall and almost broke her fingers; her eyes
      watered from pain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And the predator behind her grew nearer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">but not yet just behind</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">'What..'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She raised her head as if out of water – sweat running down her
      burning face – and saw a picture of a wizard surrounded by geese as
      tall as himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">'Help,' Hermione wheezed out. The wizard blinked myopically. She
      pushed away with a gasp, and soon – too soon – heard the club crash
      into the stone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So the picture was smashed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And she was still running.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">why?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was a mountain troll, and it hadn't trampled her into the
      floor in seconds?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hope flared briefly, but she was a General and it was clear, it
      was <em class="calibre8">clear</em> that –</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">it was herding her</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">something more terrible was waiting out there<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione hurled her bag over her shoulder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">think</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">open air?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">no</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">where?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">here</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She dove sideways, into a narrow cul-de-sac, through blinding
      stripes of powerless sunlight, skidded, fell into an alcove.
      Mistake. Her movements were restricted, and there was zero
      protection from –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The troll turned the corner.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Idly lifted its weapon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Advanced a step, crossing a harmless band of light from a high,
      narrow window. It was like some special effect in a Muggle
      movie.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">where was Harry?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">'Incendio!'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Missed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">'INCENDIO!'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Missed. It moved so quickly!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">'Glisseo!'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wasn't even noticed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">'Somnium!'</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Well it does have a brain!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another step. It was toying with her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">think</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She couldn't cast the Killing Curse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This thing was impervious to the usual means.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nobody was coming to help.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't know the <em class="calibre8">details</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She couldn't flee.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">think</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another step.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Why did the Sun work? Why didn't the Sun work now?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Let it be solvable. Please. Let the troll be enchanted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">'FINITE INCANTATEM!'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It held out a hand, tenderly cupping the bright beam in its
      palm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Her</em> hands were cold. She was… crying?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">think!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry made weapons from everything. When he wanted a sword, he
      made a sword.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Useless – the troll maintained constant Transfiguration on
      itself. It could only be defeated in one piece.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So? Apply energy, like Harry did that time with
      photosynthesis.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Useless – no source of energy, and nothing could penetrate its
      armour.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">because stone didn't</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">conduct light</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">in most cases</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Feeling nothing much, she raised her wand and twitched it once,
      twice, thrice and four times, and her raw fingers moved as if of
      their own will.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry believed she could do it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was no reason why she couldn't do it. Aside from
      hiccuping.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The troll leaned forward.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Mom, I will be home for summer</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She whispered the words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And won.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
