<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>46. Significant Digits pt2 - Significant Digits Chapter 40: Science, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="46. Significant Digits pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s12" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 40: Science</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">John Snow Center for Medicine and Tower School of Doubt (The
      Tower)</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">October 3rd, 1998</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Abercrombie, Ms. Ryan. How can I help you?" asked the dean,
      glancing at his wristwatch. "It must be important if you've come to
      see me during my office hours this week."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Visiting the dean was relatively simple, but annoyingly tedious:
      you simply pinned a note to the front of your robes about office
      hours, then snapped a Safety Stick. Few students ever bothered,
      especially considering how intimidating the former prodigy and
      current magical titan could be. His inaugural speech to the Science
      Program students hadn't been especially impressive - a great deal
      of fuss about a "pale blue dot" - but some of the new students in
      the Program had felt faint just from being in the Tower and in such
      proximity to the great man. Craig Abercrombie and Siobhan Ryan
      thought this visit was necessary, however.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As usual, every team in their year of the Science Program had
      been given their project on Sunday. In this instance, each trio of
      students was handed a small brown box containing the broken shards
      of a vase and a small card of information. Craig, Siobhan, and
      Perry Paderau got a box full of white-glazed pieces decorated with
      delicate designs in blue and green. The card had informed them that
      this was formerly an Art Nouveau vase created by Leon Solon, and
      told them that they were required to "repair the vase" without
      magic. <em class="calibre7">You may use magic in any way you please during the
      process, as long as no spell directly touches or affects the pieces
      of the vase. Points will be awarded based on the completeness of
      the restoration, overall aesthetic effect, and creativity.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, sir, it's just got to be Muggle glue, right?" said Craig.
      "Nothing else you can do. Not much of a challenge. We were
      wondering if you might talk to Professor Syracuse about it, and get
      him to change it a bit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suggested this assignment, actually," said Dean of the
      Science Program Harry Potter-Evans-Verres. He leaned back in his
      chair behind the huge wooden table, adjusting his glasses, and
      gestured at a pile of books at one end of the table. Craig
      recognized some of the textbooks from the science program and
      several books on pottery styles and history, along with a handful
      of note-filled parchments.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a brief pause as the two students absorbed this
      information, then Siobhan spoke up. "Sir, I'm not sure it fits with
      some of the other projects we've done. They all needed… well, you
      had to think about them. This will just be… tedious. Gluing things
      together."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't underestimate the value of patience, Ms. Ryan," said the
      dean. "Having the fortitude to do something annoying and fiddly is
      a key aspect of good science." He pushed himself back from the big
      table, and stood up, gesturing vaguely. "A few rooms away is a
      project I've been working on for <em class="calibre7">years</em>, trying minor
      variations on the same thing over and over again to try to find the
      exact shielding that will work for my purposes. And I'll probably
      keep working at it tomorrow, and next week, and so on. If you've
      decided on a way to complete your project, don't quit just because
      it seems tedious. Most worthwhile things are tedious at some point,
      so you should get used to tedium… as long as it's for a good
      purpose, and not just busywork."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is just different than Professor Syracuse's previous
      assignments, that's all," said Siobhan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Craig nodded in agreement, and then his face lit up. "There was
      something about this sort of thing in one of our books…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He walked over to the pile of books and notes that the dean had
      indicated. He leafed through them until he found what he was
      looking for: a copy of <em class="calibre7">Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman!</em>
      Craig opened it and began flipping through it, rapidly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some of the previous weekly projects from the Professor of
      Engineering had been:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">-Construct a way to view a basilisk with sufficient clarity
      that it could be effectively fought. Any means allowed, Muggle or
      magical.</em> Entries included glasses with mirrors built into
      them, blindfolds enchanted with <em class="calibre7">vitalis revelio</em>, a
      purchased pair of Muggle night-vision goggles, and a simple piece
      of parchment inscribed with the words, "Use the Killing Curse and
      then view it as much as you want."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">-Build upon last week's work studying Muggle agriculture,
      and suggest a new way to improve it in a well-structured essay. No
      minimum number of inches.</em> Answers were almost universally
      centered around either the use of magical creatures (interbreeding,
      pest control, etc.) or the production of fresh water (wide-scale
      weather management, enchanted salt-water filters, etc.) The most
      successful team pointed out that simply using Vanishing Rooms would
      result in the biggest improvement to Muggle agriculture,
      eliminating all the problems of preservation and
      transportation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">-Go to the northeast corridor, take the second stairwell, go
      left down the hall, and enter the eighteenth room on the left. Once
      the door locks behind you, your team will have one hour to escape.
      You may not use your wands. You may bring anything else with you
      that you wish.</em> Students brought lockpicks enchanted with
      flawless function, battering rams transfigured to a small size,
      bottles of magical fire or Bundimun acid, and other things. Most
      plans had needed to be altered somewhat after the door
      vanished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">-This is a Muggle device known as a "mousetrap," used in
      place of the Vermexous Charm. It is missing the spring which would
      normally power it with mechanical energy. Make it work. Points will
      be awarded based on the effectiveness of the trap on a living mouse
      and creativity.</em> Most teams succeeded to get the trap to work,
      replacing the spring with twisted rope or other solutions. The two
      winning teams, however, found more innovative approaches. One team
      had put a lump of poisoned bait on the trap and ignored the
      device's original purpose. The other had tied the broken mousetrap
      to the back of a hungry kneazle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">-Write an essay in three parts: (1) Where is an example of
      the Pareto Principle at work within Hogwarts? (2) Where can you
      find an example of the normal distribution in Hogwarts? (3)
      Identify a place where you would normally expect to find an example
      of either concept, even though it is not present. No minimum number
      of inches.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">-Golden Snitches have been immobilized and hidden throughout
      the fifth floor. Find any Snitch, but remember that most sensory
      spells will not be effective. Do not go past the mungbeans or you
      will certainly become lost.</em> Only two teams had won. The first
      had gone and purchased a new Golden Snitch in Hogsmeade, pointing
      out that the rules didn't state <em class="calibre7">which</em> Snitch they needed
      to find. The other had researched the history of Quidditch's most
      famous cheaters and found a little-known fifteenth-century charm to
      divine the location of a Snitch. It used a distinctive wand motion.
      The following month, the Seeker for the Slough Sizzlers was fined a
      hundred Galleons and barred from competition.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a moment of searching through the book, Craig had found
      the part he wanted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sir, remember when Mr. Feynman goes to Brasilia and talks to
      them about what they do with their science education?" Dean Potter
      nodded; it was one of the more famous parts of the book. "Well,
      sir, Mr. Feynman says they have to choose a way because of 'a good
      reason, a sensible reason; not just because other countries do.' "
      The student tapped the spot in the book.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Mr. Abercrombie. But I assure you, we're not doing this
      project just because other engineering classes do it this way." The
      dean smiled indulgently, and the expression paradoxically made him
      look very young. He was only a few years older than them, after
      all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, sir, but maybe you're assigning this project because
      you're doing the sort of thing you think that Mr. Feynman would
      do?" said Craig, questioningly. He closed the book and set it back
      down with the rest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Siobhan frowned, shaking her head. "Well, I don't know if that's
      it, Craig. I just thought..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a good point," said the dean, looking thoughtful. "When I
      was younger, I spent quite a bit of time feeling frustrated with my
      teachers, and wishing I had a truly talented and creative tutor. I
      wasn't quite prepared when I got my wish." He fell quiet for a
      moment, and the students waited, a bit impatient despite their awe.
      The dean was either referring to Albus Dumbledore or David Monroe,
      and it was a dramatic reminder of how close they were to history…
      but they still wanted to leave as soon as possible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll think about it," said the dean. "And before I give any
      more suggestions to Professor Syracuse, I'll write out some clear
      lesson objectives. Cleverness isn't a substitute for pedagogy, I
      suppose."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, sir," said Craig and Siobhan, just slightly out of
      unison. They seemed discomfited by the end of the conversation;
      Craig was tugging at his robes nervously and Siobhan was visibly
      sweating. They left without another word.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The ensuing week was relatively normal - or what passed for
      normal in Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry's Science
      Program, which was not known for its normality. The lower-form
      students (in their first two years of the Program) scurried in
      small packs from one class to another, learning the rudiments of
      seven core subjects and one elective. The upper-form students spent
      their time with fewer professors, studying the rudiments of a few
      branches of science and doing labs. It was a ruthlessly intense
      program, and more than half of the students quit during their first
      year.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Syracuse's afternoon class on Tuesdays, Wednesdays,
      and Saturdays was a group of fourth-years. They had a swagger about
      them: they'd survived three years of a course of study that was
      already legendary for its difficulty, surpassing even the Salem
      Witches' Institute's "Trial by Fire" graduate school of languages.
      In another year, they'd be choosing independent courses of study in
      magical science in the School of Doubt, working with Tower or
      Unspeakable researchers - or even just beginning careers, if they
      wanted. They would be the third graduating class of the Science
      Program, and they were on top of the world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Truth be told, the swagger in these fourth-years might explain
      why Professor Santo Syracuse agreed so readily to the vase project
      when it was suggested by Dean Potter-Evans-Verres. Such an
      assignment had good prospects for teaching some arrogant teenagers
      a little humility.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sit down, sit down," snapped Professor Syracuse. "Paderau! You
      heard me! Sit down and be quiet! We have no time for your nonsense
      - the ladies aren't impressed. If you want to impress them, learn
      your equations."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The boy in question stood up from where he'd been crouched
      between two witches and walked around their station back towards
      his own in the back, wearing an expression of aggrieved innocence.
      He sat down between Siobhan and Craig, making as much noise as
      possible as he settled his elbows on the high table and his rear on
      the stool. His partners exchanged a look of annoyance behind his
      back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Syracuse watched him intently for a moment to be sure
      that the admonishment had been effective, then brightened as he
      turned to the class as a whole. He was a thin man of average
      height, and gloriously bald, with a shiny pink scalp and a mouth
      that twitched from side to side when he was excited. He was often
      excited.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Today we'll spend the first hour on project presentation, and
      then after the break we'll be doing more work on friction," the
      professor said, rubbing his hands together in anticipation and
      illustration. "We'll try to hammer at least a few basic principles
      into you, so that you're only woefully ignorant, and not completely
      ignorant. It will be a rich, full day." He waggled his eyebrows in
      anticipation. "Okay! Get out your projects - whatever you have, get
      it out, even if it's just your notes! You can put your binders away
      for now. <em class="calibre7">Do not</em> spill your flobberworm mucus or murtlap
      essence, or you will be cleaning <em class="calibre7">everyone's</em> station at the
      end of the afternoon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was some shuffling and murmuring as people got themselves
      sorted, taking out whatever their team had managed to complete that
      week. All six of the teams appeared to have put together something
      in order to repair the vase, but as everyone looked around, they
      saw a variety of solutions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What did we get done, guys?" Perry Paderau asked the other two,
      in a hushed voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" 'We' didn't get anything done… <em class="calibre7">Craig and I</em> did finish
      something, though," answered Siobhan, annoyed. She was arranging a
      closed box in front of herself, carefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't be that way, Ryan… it's been crazy this past week," said
      Perry, frowning. "My dad wants me to come work for him when we get
      done this year, and so I've been trying to get some extra help from
      Professor Sprout in the evenings." Perry's father grew Sopophorous
      beans for export.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You didn't do anything, you just let Siobhan and I do it, and
      now you're going to take credit," said Craig, irritably.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Perry turned to him, and spoke in a harsh whisper, "Hey, you're
      not the one who's expected to spend the rest of his life with
      baskets of Mooncalf dung and a pair of silver scissors, okay? Do
      you know how <em class="calibre7">often</em> you need to sharpen silver scissors?"
      He scowled. "I did all the work to get us out of that room last
      month, when the door vanished, so have some mercy, will you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is the only time," said Siobhan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine!" said Perry, a bit too loudly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quiet over there!" said Professor Syracuse, darting his gaze at
      their team. He frowned. "Again, Paderau? One point from Ravenclaw!"
      Perry groaned and slumped forward on the table. "Okay, first team…
      Jess, Raphael, Sally… what do you have?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two boys and a girl rose from their stools and walked awkwardly
      to the front table. They set a vase down, carefully, as well as two
      small bowls. The vase was small, brown, and extremely plain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Our solution was simple. We had a broken vase, and we needed to
      make a working vase - to 'repair' it. So it seemed to us like the
      best thing would be to just make a new vase, rather than trying to
      remake the old one." She gestured at the table, and one of her
      teammates dipped his fingers into one of the small bowls, lifting
      out a palmful of brown powder. "We took the pieces of the original
      vase and ground them down into dust. Then we took that dust," she
      gestured again, and another teammate displayed a handful of dark
      clay, "and we added water, turning it back into clay. We didn't use
      any magic on the pieces, before or after we ground them down. We
      didn't even use <em class="calibre7">Aguamenti</em> to create the water - we just
      used the tap." She sounded very proud.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then," she said, gesturing at the brown pot, "we made a pot,
      and asked a house elf to put it in the kilns for us the next time
      they fired something. We got it back this morning, and here is the
      pot: clean and new, and in one piece."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The professor approached the front table, frowning. "Full marks
      for creativity, and I supposed this is a 'complete restoration.' "
      He picked up their pot, and examined it. "I am actually surprised
      that this worked. I wouldn't have thought that you'd be able to
      grind the it down and then just re-fire it. The glassification…
      hmm…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Syracuse drew his wand and tapped the side of the pot
      twice, saying, "<em class="calibre7">Aparecium</em>." The pot and the bowl of clay
      changed color - very slightly, tinting itself just a bit pink. The
      bowl of powder, on the other hand, turned red. The professor turned
      to regard the trio of students, eyebrow raised. "Oddly, very little
      of the invisible dye seems to have found its way into your new pot…
      almost as though you just mixed a little in with new clay, after
      discovering that your plan wouldn't work."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They muttered some excuses, but the professor was already waving
      them back to their seats. "If you want to remedy your low score
      today, then I'd suggest you each write me thirteen inches on why
      you think your plan didn't work, and what you should have done
      instead. I'd also suggest availing yourself of the library, this
      time around. If you'd done even a bit of research - or if you'd
      been paying attention when we discussed ceramics - you'd have known
      about why this wouldn't work."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Syracuse turned back to the class. "Next."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The next two teams had simply glued the vase back together. One
      of the teams had done much better than the other, and had clearly
      taken the time to choose a specific kind of glue and practice,
      while the other team's vase had small chips missing and beaded
      lines of overflow dried along the seams. It even leaned a bit to
      the side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Syracuse commented on patience and conscientiousness
      as each team presented their work. The team that would go last
      watched in dismay, since it was obvious to everyone in the room
      that they had done the worst job - their glue didn't even look dry.
      One of them muttered a charm under their breath, and tried to
      subtly position their box so that it hid her efforts to use the
      warming spell on her work.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Next."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The fourth team had tried hard for the "creative" and
      "aesthetics" points as a strategy, and had used the pieces of their
      broken vase as a mosaic on the outside of a different vase,
      breaking them into even smaller fragments and arranging them in an
      attractive pattern. They held up drawings they'd copied from a book
      with a Quarto Quickening Quill from Queevel's, showing different
      examples of mosaics in art around the world, as well as a large
      diagram indicating the best way to fit the pieces and stick them in
      place. They were a very thorough group, and the class was just
      lucky that they hadn't had time to make a diorama of a Pompeiian
      antechamber. They looked to be leading the class this week,
      easily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Next," said the professor, gesturing at Craig, Siobhan, and
      Perry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The three of them got up. Siobhan carried the box with their
      project in it. She set it down, stood in front of it, and took out
      the vase. The white vase stood tall, and patterns of blue meshed
      with patterns of green on its surface. All of the pieces had been
      placed neatly where they belonged, but despite this care, the seams
      were clearly visible. Indeed, they gleamed with gold. Thick lines
      of the metal traced the joints between each piece. It was
      ostentatious, calling attention to the damage rather than trying to
      hide it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Perry looked horrified. "This looks like we went mad," he hissed
      to Siobhan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Shut up</em>," she whispered back, fiercely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We wanted to do a technique from Japan called 'kintsugi.' It's
      a traditional Japanese craft, and part of an approach that doesn't
      try to hide the history of a piece of broken ceramic, but instead
      make that history part of the visible story of the piece," Craig
      said, sounding a bit wooden and rehearsed. "We couldn't find a shop
      that sold the sort of lacquer that would work, which comes from a
      special tree, so we experimented with different things - potions
      and some goop from a Doxy nest and that sort of thing that we
      thought might work."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is Skele-Grow, reduced by half," said Siobhan, and she
      carefully lifted the pot and held it up. "We added a tiny bit of
      bone to activate it, and dusted it with some powdered gold. Not a
      lot, and it turns out to be cheaper than you'd think -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because it's very ductile, so it can be made extremely thin,"
      interrupted Perry, smiling as he was won over.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...and so our receipts still only total up to about five
      Sickles," finished Siobhan, after an annoyed glance at Perry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wonderful!" exclaimed Professor Syracuse, looking positively
      delighted. "It looks beautiful - and it shows not just creativity,
      but real scholarship. This is actually - my goodness - this is
      actually something specifically mentioned to me by the dean when we
      discussed this project! He is quite a Japanophile, in fact, and we
      discussed the <em class="calibre7">wabi-sabi</em> aesthetic in particular!" The
      professor shook his head, marveling. "I know we don't have
      <em class="calibre7">any</em> books on the topic… how exactly did you learn about
      this technique?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, well," said Craig, thinking about the notes on the table in
      the Tower that he'd read while looking for the Feynman book. "We
      remembered what you said about 'social engineering'... it's easier
      if you start with half the solution."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The top sheet had read:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Santo, one final thought on my suggested assignment for next
      week:</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I don't want to step on your toes, or make you feel like you
      have to give this. We promised you broad discretion when Minerva
      first came to you about your position in Killarney, and that hasn't
      changed. This is just an idea I thought would be fun. The idea here
      isn't just to make it difficult or tedious, since students will
      encounter enough of that without our help. But we're giving them
      only the rudiments of a scientific education here… I want to
      challenge them as much as possible. I mentioned kintsugi to you as
      one possible solution to the project, but it's also a metaphor for
      the wizarding world. You're a Muggleborn, and you were ostracized
      for relying on Muggle science for your research on mermaids and
      evolution, so you know what we're up against as we try to change
      society. These students are golden, but we have to make them
      strong... so they can hold together a broken world.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">-H</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I think it goes back to my high school days. In computer
      class, the first assignment was to write a program to print the
      first 100 Fibonacci numbers. Instead, I wrote a program that would
      steal passwords of students. My teacher gave me an A.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Kevin Mitnick</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
