<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>46. Significant Digits pt2 - Significant Digits Chapter 43: Pip Around the World, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="46. Significant Digits pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s15" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 43: Pip Around the World</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Portkey Office, Ministry of Magic, Whitehall, London<br class="calibre4"/>
      May 17th, 1999</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hullo!" said Pip, smiling at the gent at the Official Business
      desk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked up wearily from a thick ledger, squinting at Pip.
      "Hello." He stared at Pip with red-rimmed eyes, and waited. Pip
      smiled brightly back at him, expectantly. Finally, the man said,
      "Can I help you with something?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Auror Philip Pirrip, here to pick up some portkeys," said Pip,
      his smile dimming slightly at the reception. It brightened again as
      he leaned forward and said, meaningfully, "On business for the
      Tower."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The official stared at Pip for a moment, then looked back down
      at the ledger. He ran his finger down a column on the left, and
      then the one next to it. "Pirrip, Philip… yes. 875 Oxtail Red." He
      looked back up at Pip, and shoved back from his desk. His wheeled
      seat squeaked rhythmically as it bore him over to a bureau along
      the wall of the office. The man didn't even bother to get up, but
      just pushed himself along with his legs as he trailed an index
      finger along one row of small drawers, then down to another. All of
      them were progressively darker shades of red. When the official had
      found the one he wanted, he yanked it open. "Here we are, then."
      Another scoot of his chair brought the man squeaking back to his
      desk and Pip.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The official put a velvet sack on the desk. "Hangzhou, Bangkok,
      Cyprus, and return to the Ministry. All labeled. Don't mix them
      up." He took a quill from his desk and made some notes in his
      ledger, shoving the sack over to Pip.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," Pip said, scooping up the sack. He opened it and
      checked inside, just for a quick count of the grimy old envelopes
      inside. There were four, sure enough. One of the envelopes was open
      - it looked to have an old biro inside.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're all there and all correct," said the man behind the
      desk, and Pip looked up to see him frowning in disapproval.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just checking," Pip said, uncomfortably. "After that thing the
      Weasley twins did, it just -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">They're all there and all correct</em>," said the official
      again, grindingly. He slammed the heavy ledger shut, and his
      inkwell rattled on the desk. They didn't like to be reminded of
      when the Weasleys had replaced all the Russian and Hungarian
      portkeys. Everyone who'd tried to go to Moscow had ended up in the
      third-floor loo, instead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, there was no telling from looking at the bloody things,
      anyway, Pip supposed. He'd just have to hope he didn't end up
      somewhere nasty. Or if not, at least someplace dry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Yu's Library, The Court of Rubies, Hangzhou</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hullo!" said Pip, his face serious. "I'm here to pick up a
      parcel for Mr. Harry Potter-Evans-Verres." He did his absolute best
      to project an image of power and foreign might, tilting his chin
      upward and slightly to the side. It was a haughty look, he thought
      - the look of someone who had looked death in the eye and
      triumphed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you okay?" Sunny Chow asked from his side. He turned to see
      the Wizengamot's Special Envoy to the Court of Rubies staring up at
      him. She was shorter than average for someone of Asian descent, and
      she was looking at him frank curiosity in her hazel eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pip deflated slightly. Maybe his jawline wasn't strong enough to
      pull that off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No parcels here," said the librarian, his English heavily
      accented. He shook his head, and swept one palm around the room, as
      though to draw Pip's attention to the towering, haphazard stacks of
      books and piles of scrolls that occupied almost all of the long and
      wide room. "This is the library. You want the owlery. That way,
      sir." He pointed to one of the doors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, Zhongying," said Chow, waving a hand dismissively. "This is
      Auror Pirrip. His Excellency He Jin has left a package here for the
      auror. It's going to a Mr. Harry Potter-Evans-Verres. His
      Excellency would have left this here himself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will check," said the librarian. He turned and made his way
      to a corner of the room, stepping lightly among stacks of books
      that were easily twice his own height. They swayed unsteadily,
      simply from the touch of air left by his passage, but none of them
      fell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Why a queer way to sort everything,</em> thought Pip,
      watching a pyramid of scrolls. A stray scroll slipped from its
      place at the top of the heap and skidded halfway down the side of
      the pile, only to catch on the curling corner of a companion and
      hang there, precariously. <em class="calibre7">And this place would be a nightmare
      to defend. Must be like this for protection against theft, and
      maybe camouflage. Hard to browse, but maybe that's not something
      they want people doing.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The librarian pushed aside a false panel in the wooden wall, and
      withdrew a metal case. He opened it, and Pip saw it was filled with
      glowing phials of memories. The librarian squinted at them, then
      nodded, slowly. He turned back to them. "Yes, there is something
      here for you. I apologize for my rudeness. If it would not be too
      much trouble, I must use precautions before I retrieve your
      package." He gestured at one of the few clear areas on the floor,
      and Pip saw that there was a faint outline of chalk there in the
      shape of a circle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pip glanced at the Special Envoy, but Chow had nodded easily,
      and was already stepping into the circle. He joined her. "What is
      this?" he muttered, uneasily. "Ward?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not quite. Do you know the writings of a Xiang Yu?" Chow
      whispered back. The librarian rummaged in his robe, pulling his
      wand from some interior pocket. Pip shook his head in the
      negative.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," Chow said, as the librarian pointed his wand at them,
      "let's just say you don't want to move."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Peskipiksi rendehoushan</em>," cast the librarian.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Almost without transition, Pip and Chow were encircled by an
      orange screen of some kind. It stretched in an unbroken column from
      the wooden floor to the wooden ceiling, and Pip could feel the heat
      of it on his face. He didn't start in surprise, but his wand was
      already in his hand, and he held the first stage of the wordless
      Drill Breaking Hex ready in his mind. But they didn't seem to be in
      any immediate danger, as long as they didn't move, and Chow was
      standing calmly next to him with her arms folded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pip could see through the orange. It was some manner of liquid,
      and small eddies and swirls moved lazily through it, but also thin
      enough that it was translucent. The librarian was visible through
      it, and Pip watched him as he stepped to one side of the room, and
      levitated a short stack of books to one side, uncovering a
      Pensieve. He added a memory to it, and then immersed his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Less than a minute later, the librarian rose from the basin, and
      turned to the chalk circle. He whispered the command word
      inaudibly, and the orange glare vanished as quickly as it had
      come.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I apologize to you, Special Envoy and sir auror," the librarian
      said, inclining his head slightly. "The parcel was left here under
      some special circumstances, and we were not permitted to know about
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is, I am told, a matter of some security and secrecy," said
      Chow. "The fault is ours, not yours."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The librarian inclined his head again, and turned to the wall
      where he'd retrieved the memory. He took hold of a seemingly random
      wooden panel and pulled on it, and the board telescoped out from
      the wall, revealing itself to be a large cabinet with numerous
      small cubby-holes apparent in its surface.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He pulled on the knobs of four of the drawers in sequence, and
      the last one slid open at his touch, allowing the librarian to
      slide his hand inside. The mouth of the cubby was too small for
      this, but it obligingly distended to permit him to reach
      inside.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I bet that if you do the sequence wrong, or choose the wrong
      little drawer, or something else like that, then you could lose
      your hand that way,</em> Pip marveled. It was a good idea, but he'd
      bet it led to a lot of accidents. He'd have to tell the Ministry
      about it. Maybe they could imitate it, and a certain rude squeaky
      squinty git at the Portkey Office might be a little more polite in
      the future.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The librarian slowly and gently pulled out something from the
      hole - a book. No, part of a book. The ragged edges of torn binding
      showed that it was just a few dozen pages and a cover, ripped free
      from the whole book. The librarian turned and offered the packet to
      Chow, inclining his head again. She accepted it, bowing slightly in
      return, and turned to hand it to Pip.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He took it, and glanced at the cover. Not Mandarin, but an
      English book. Not new binding either, and it looked at least two or
      three centuries old. But it was also clearly the
      <em class="calibre7">re</em>binding… a glance at the exposed back page showed that
      it was truly ancient, tinted yellow and marred with small
      imperfections in the parchment. The longskin goat had been bred in
      the fourteenth century, making the original book at least six
      hundred years old. It had seen some mishandling, too… affixed
      inside of the cover was a scrap of parchment that was clearly only
      the middle part of a page. None of the text was legible to him,
      which was probably just as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pip looked at the cover again. The book was by Harry Lowe,
      according to the gilt letters.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The Transmygracioun</em>, it was called.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">resisted them with its power. Our people took hold of the
      knowledge, and have donne great things. Likewise in the future,
      there will be invaders. But thei shall take the whole world. Fear
      shall come with them, and ruin. There lies the doom of which I have
      spoken to you. Þis shall not last. There shall be new maistery, and
      new maisters to take the place of the old. I have seen þis, and so
      I say to ye to come þis key. The fires of the soul are great and
      burn</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The Wizarding Bank of Bangkok, Bangkok, Thailand</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hullo!" said Pip, peering over the counter. "Anyone here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The bank building was dimly lit and poorly maintained. The floor
      was beautiful marble, but it was marked with innumerable scratches
      and scrapes. The long front desk was similar, made of a creamy
      soapstone marred with long gashes all along its surface. The place
      looked deserted, without even a guard, which was rather odd for a
      bank. It was somehow stranger, though, when Pip noticed that there
      also wasn't any furniture. No stools were behind the counter, no
      message boxes or unsummonable security boxes were resting on it,
      and there weren't even any chairs for customers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"ขอโทษ… ขอโทษ!" called a voice from a back room, speaking in
      rapid Thai. A moment later, a chubby man with dark skin shuffled
      out into view. He was wearing a loose white robe and linen
      trousers, and he was barefoot. "สวัสดีครับ."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry, do you speak English?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"คุณพูดไทยได้ไหม?" came the reply from the man, who looked
      puzzled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"อะไร?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is there anyone here who speaks English?" Pip said,
      desperately. He'd just assumed that the bank would have someone who
      spoke English. Maybe that was silly, but English had been the
      wizarding language of the world for centuries. Almost everything
      the Confederation did was in English.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Prasong!" called out the man, turning to shout over his
      shoulder. "Praaaaaasong! Prasong! คนอังกฤษ!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yaaaaa!" called a response, sounding irritable.
      "ฉันกำลังมาาาาาาา!" Another man emerged from the back room. He
      looked identical to the first. For a moment Pip worried that he was
      turning into a Muggle and a horrible person, but realized after a
      moment that the two were twins.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello, sir?" said the second twin. He had a strange way of
      speaking, ending each sentence as though it were a question.
      "Welcome to the Wizarding Bank of Bangkok? Can I help you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, hullo. I'm here to pick up a parcel? Auror Philip Pirrip,
      from Britain?" said Pip. He glanced around the room. "Is everything
      all right here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes? Only English parcel here, I think?" said the man, nodding.
      "No problems?" He turned to his brother and said some things
      rapidly. They sounded like questions but were apparently
      instructions instead, since the other man vanished into the back
      again, nodding repeatedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pip and the anglophone stood there in silence, awkwardly. The
      Thai man yawned hugely, rubbing at his face. Pip wondered if he'd
      just woken up. It was rather late here, after all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where is everything?" Pip asked, speaking up to break the
      silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Everything what?" asked the man.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, this is a bank, right? Where are all the… banking
      things?" Pip finished, lamely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man shrugged. "We don't want things to be stolen? Money is
      in the vaults, so we can keep it from people… outside?" He flapped
      his hand at the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But what's to stop someone from just… going back there and
      going into the vaults? Only you're here to guard the place," Pip
      pointed out. "In Gringott's, they have all sorts of guards… wizards
      and goblins both." He paused. "Are there loads of goblins back
      there or something?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man scratched his face, looking thoughtful at the question,
      then shook his head. "No, no… all the guards down on the sub-level?
      And Prethang and I are สควิบ… ah, Squibs? We just work?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This doesn't make any bloody sense," said Pip.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Squib (could that be true?) shrugged. "One way into the
      bank? Naga live there, and they eat magic? If you are magic or have
      magic, they will eat you? So we go through the waterfall and down
      to the bank?" He shrugged again. "Guards down there, though, if you
      worry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pip studied him. "That can't be true. There's not a kind of
      beast that only eats wizards. Professor Kettleburn wasn't good, but
      he wasn't so bad he'd have left that out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man just shrugged a third time, and said nothing. The pair
      stood in silence until his twin returned bearing another torn piece
      of book. It was the same book, Pip saw immediately. The last page
      was mostly gone, with only the first third still present. The rips
      looked like they would fit together.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The auror left without ever getting an answer, though he would
      make a full report. He never would find out the secrets of the
      Bangkok Bank… or a great many other things.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Alle of these things I have told you, but there is one thing
      I have not told you. Þis then hear, and then I shall be donne. At
      the end of his tyme, Merlin seiden then he hadde a great prophetie,
      but that he would not explain it. He seiden instead these words,
      and bade rememberance. "The Achaeans have brought many knowledge to
      owr island of Britain. Thei came to us as invaders, joyning with
      the little and the færie and laying waste to our places of power.
      Ac Britain is a strong land, and it</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Cypriot Hold, Cyprus</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hullo!" said Pip. Some of the cheer had worn out of his voice,
      but he still tried to keep his best foot forward. It was like his
      mum always said: Act like a troll and folks will treat you like
      one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The woman who turned towards Pip to fix him with a wary look was
      intimidatingly tall and extraordinarily beautiful. Thick waves of
      black hair were swept up into a loose and long ponytail that nearly
      reached her back, and her formal robes were a glimmering metallic
      fabric that clung to her body with the tailored precision of
      enchanted garments. Her eyebrows were sharply sculpted, slashing in
      skeptical curves over enormous brown eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Auror Pirrip?" she asked, her voice a throaty burr. "From the
      Tower?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pip thought he must be floating.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," he managed. "It is I."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She studied him for a moment longer, then nodded. "I am Lady
      Feri Sarah Ellesmere Önder, of the Noble House of Önder. I have a
      parcel for you, if you wish it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pip nodded, and tried to keep his smile from stretching to silly
      dimensions. "Thank you, Lady Önder. That would be appreciated."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This way, then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pip fell into step next to the Cypriot as she led the way out of
      the Hold. It was a fragile-looking building of fluted glass columns
      and diamondine crenulations, and it looked all the more delicate
      for the damage that scarred its sides. Fire had taken some of the
      columns, and great melted rents had eaten into the walls behind.
      When the Tower had fought back against Independent aggression
      around the world, the Cappadocians had seized the opportunity to
      attack their ancient enemy once more. Even at this hour, three
      goblins were at work repairing a column. The wizard who owned them
      stood nearby - an immediate reminder that this was a barbaric
      country in some ways. It was scarcely believable that the bloody
      slavers here considered themselves British.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why has your master requested this book of me?" asked the Lady
      Önder as they walked, speaking quietly. "It is the greatest
      treasure of my House. I'd know the purpose of its journey."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know, madam," Pip admitted. "He wants to read it, I
      suppose. My, ah, 'master' is the Tower, and he seems to want to
      know everything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Their path took them down the streets of Magical Cyprus, walking
      on smooth stones that had seen thousands of years of foot-traffic.
      There were few others on the streets - a single vendor selling
      aromatic snacks of roasted nut-and-fruit pastries; a pair of young
      women out for a romantic stroll, arm in arm; and a collared goblin
      carrying a caged owl.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your master thinks he already knows everything, I think," said
      the Cypriot. She stopped at the door of a grand home of green
      stone. It was very British in appearance - looked rather like
      pictures Pip had seen of Malfoy Manor, in fact - with the exception
      of the elegant minaret that rose from the roof peak. A crest was
      worked in gold into the stone above the door - three arms bendwise
      couped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean?" Pip asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Lady Önder opened the door. "The Treaty, and now its
      successor, have brought much good to me and mine. But there is also
      a great deal of… direction in it. Matters that I had thought long
      settled are re-opened, and there is even some… well, some might
      call it ingratitude." She stepped aside, and gestured.
      "Please."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pip nodded, and entered. "I am sorry to hear that you feel this
      way, madam. Cyprus and Britain have always been close."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Cypriot smiled sharply. "Not always. But yes, for a long
      time we have followed the leadership of your country. At times, we
      have been the only ones to do so. In the minds of many, this should
      earn us some measure of respect from Britain. A friend does not
      like to see another friend take advantage."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't like the interference," said Pip. It was cool and
      dark inside the home, but it was obvious that the House of Önder
      was enormously wealthy. There were low couches of white bicorn
      leather, an expensive-looking scrying mirror on one wall, and a
      vase with a towering arrangement of silver flowers. A wide
      staircase led up and out of sight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We do not," said the Lady Önder. Her voice was chilly. "Things
      have now been arranged so carefully that we have no alternative.
      That doesn't mean we need be pleased with that change, or the other
      changes that will be forced on us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry that it is disturbing the relations between our
      countries," said Pip, summoning his best diplomatic turns of
      phrase. <em class="calibre7">Yes, terribly sorry to be interfering in your bloody
      slavery, you crazy pile of kneazle-kak. Can't use house-elves like
      civilized people? What a bother for us to disturb your traditions.
      I'll try to get out of your hair as soon as possible so you can get
      back to sipping baby blood out of your goblin-skull goblets, or
      whatever it is you do here.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mithri!" called the Cypriot, raising her voice. "The Britisher
      is here. Bring me the book."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a quiet scraping sound from above. "Yes, Lady Önder,"
      called back a tired voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The owner of the voice made his way to them. The steps sounded
      wrong - a thump and a scrape - and the reason became apparent as
      speaker came down the stairs, into the lights at the front
      entrance. It was a goblin, and he had only one leg. He used a
      crutch, hobbling slowly and carefully down the steps. The Being had
      very short ears for a goblin, but a long nose. The nose had a kink
      in the middle. It looked very tired, although at least they'd seen
      fit to give it decent clothing: a white tunic and necktie. The
      steel of a collar was just visible under the tie. There was a book
      under its free arm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Here you are, Auror Pirrip," said the Lady Önder, as her slave
      offered Pip the book. "I do not expect to see it again. I hope it
      brings your master ill."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, Lady Önder," said Pip. "Thank you for
      everything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Everything?" asked the Cypriot, frowning, as Pip walked to the
      door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, everything," Pip said, as he left. "Please believe me when
      I say that you have made me very proud tonight. Twice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">as bright as the stars." At þis there was silence, and then
      protest, and then dismai, for none could understand these words.
      Thei were once more trublid. Mundre of the Brook took these words
      and set them down, and from him they passed to his son Mundre, and
      from him thei were taken by Togrod Teulu, and recovered from the
      little in the time of Yæl, who passed them to me. I have set them
      for you, that they may not be lost. So we are complete, and my tale
      is donne.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Safety Pole, Godric's Hollow</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The same day</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello," said a kindly-looking older man. "I wonder if you could
      help me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The auror and the healer on duty at the Godric's Hollow Safety
      Pole were deep in a hand of Dragon Poker, but the healer was
      dutiful, and he dropped the cards without a thought. He ignored the
      sour look on the auror's face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course, sir. Are you feeling all right?" said the healer,
      drawing his wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A little peaky," said the man. He accepted the offered hand of
      the healer, nodding gratefully. "It's been a worry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, no need to worry any more," said the healer. "Everything
      will be all right."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Alle of these things I have told you, but there is one thing
      I have not told you. Þis then hear, and then I shall be donne. At
      the end of his tyme, Merlin seiden then he hadde a great prophetie,
      but that he would not explain it. He seiden instead these words,
      and bade rememberance.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">The Achaeans have brought many knowledge to owr island of
      Britain. Thei came to us as invaders, joyning with the little and
      the færie and laying waste to our places of power. Ac Britain is a
      strong land, and it resisted them with its power. Our people took
      hold of the knowledge, and have donne great things. Likewise in the
      future, there will be invaders. But thei shall take the whole
      world. Fear shall come with them, and ruin. There lies the doom of
      which I have spoken to you. Þis shall not last. There shall be new
      maistery, and new maisters to take the place of the old. I have
      seen þis, and so I say to ye to come þis key. The fires of the soul
      are great and burn as bright as the stars."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">At þis there was silence, and then protest, and then dismai,
      for none could understand these words. Thei were once more trublid.
      Mundre of the Brook took these words and set them down, and from
      him they passed to his son Mundre, and from him thei were taken by
      Togrod Teulu, and recovered from the little in the time of Yæl, who
      passed them to me. I have set them for you, that they may not be
      lost. So we are complete, and my tale is donne.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Lowe, <em class="calibre7">The Transmygracioun</em>, passus tertius
      decimus</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
