<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>46. Significant Digits pt2 - Significant Digits Chapter 44: The Ineluctable Modality of the Visible, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="46. Significant Digits pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s16" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 44: The Ineluctable Modality of the
      Visible</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">What stories do you mean, and what fault do you find in
      them?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">The fault one ought to find first and foremost, especially
      if the falsehood isn't well told."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">For example?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">When a story gives a bad image of what the gods and heroes
      are like, the way a painter does whose picture is not at all like
      the things he's trying to paint."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">You're right to object to that. But what sort of story in
      particular do you have in mind?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">First, telling the greatest falsehood about the most
      important things doesn't make a fine story - I mean Hesiod telling
      us about how Uranus behaved, how Cronus punished him for it, and
      how he was in turn punished by his own son. Even if that were true,
      it should be passed over in silence, not told to foolish young
      people. And if, for some reason, it has to be told, only a very few
      people - pledged to secrecy and after sacrificing not just a pig
      but something great and scarce - should hear it, so that their
      number is kept as small as possible."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Yes. Such stories are hard to deal with."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre7">The Republic</em> II.377e-378a, Plato</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">John Snow Center for Medicine and Tower School of Doubt (The
      Tower)</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">May 17th, 1999</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The same day</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that was a waste of two hours," drawled Draco, as he
      walked into the Pairing Partnership. He closed the door behind him,
      and the Lovegood Leaf rustled. "I suppose I never really considered
      just how tedious it would be to watch a gaggle of Muggles for any
      length of time." He shook his head, and swept one hand along his
      hair, smoothing it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Didn't enjoy the movie?" asked Harry, turning in his seat away
      from the computer screen. Auror Kraeme, nearby, kept a close eye on
      Draco. She was leaning with her back against a large metal cabinet,
      arms folded - but eyes sharp.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You should call them something different, too. 'Movie'... it
      just emphasizes how primitive the entire thing is, compared to a
      real play." He affected his high-pitched Muggle Voice: " 'Wow,
      look, they're <em class="calibre7">moving</em> just like real people would, if only
      we had taste enough to go watch an actual troupe of performers!'
      "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They used to be called 'talkies,' " Harry said, wryly. "So it
      could be worse. But ticket sales at the movie theatre go up every
      week, so I'm not sure that everyone agrees with you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's the thing to do, like eating at Siegfried's. People are
      sheep, and right now you've set out some new paddocks. That doesn't
      mean there will be any long-term success. Grindelwald was a fanatic
      for painting, they say, but it's not as though Hungary is full of
      painterstoday. After Grindelwald was locked up in Nurmengard, most
      of the artists went back to sculpting. If you want people to become
      <em class="calibre7">actually interested</em>, not just intrigued by the novelty,
      then you need to make movies about things that they care about. Not
      Muggles with guns," Draco said. He pulled a chair over next to the
      EEG machine, where Harry was sitting in front of the attached
      computer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am not going to start a production company," said Harry,
      shaking his head. But he froze in the middle of the gesture and
      frowned. "Well, actually, I guess there's no reason why we
      <em class="calibre7">couldn't</em> do that. They could begin with adaptations of
      some famous wizard plays, and cast some of the same actors,
      probably."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah yes, one more industry dominated from first to last by Harry
      Potter," said Draco. "No, I don't think you'll be doing that. It
      will hardly help generate an appearance of real success if you look
      to be propping up your Muggle ventures like that. No, I think we
      need to decentralize a little."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry laughed. "Malfoy Productions?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco glanced over at the auror by the wall, within earshot,
      wordlessly. Harry followed the glance, then looked back at Draco
      with a smile. "A Vow of secrecy, don't worry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Lord Malfoy nodded, and went on. "Well, I was thinking of a
      joint venture with some Americans, actually. It wouldn't be
      difficult to start up a similar movies theatre in Tidewater.
      There's an old Westphalian ally with deep pockets, Littlebrook
      Strongbound, who might like to get ahead of your bosom friend Hig
      on something. Too much gold and control slipping through his
      fingers… and I think he senses the leash slipping around the
      Council's neck."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You'll need visible capital to start something like that," said
      Harry, "since Malfoys have typically been invested rather heavily
      in flying castles, which are not known for their liquidity. And the
      finance sector hasn't been your friend over the past few years."
      Traditional private usury was almost extinct in Britain, along with
      the corresponding interest rates. "Too many people are paying
      attention."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Draco. "A visible success to explain the new money,
      and I'll whisper in a few confidential ears that it's really
      Cappadocian gold - payment for steering things their way,
      here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was thinking Amycus Carrow as a source, actually," said
      Harry. "If you'd taken control of some of his assets, it would be a
      tidier explanation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Carrow sisters might not appreciate the news that I've
      taken control of some of their uncle's properties and loans,
      Harry," said Draco, raising an eyebrow. "They've already been
      through rather a lot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was subtle and quiet, but those words were question and
      concern and accusation, all at once. It wasn't like Harry to forget
      about innocent bystanders - and whatever their ideology, the Carrow
      sisters were certainly innocent of anything that might merit
      dragging them through any more ugliness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're right, of course," said Harry, shaking his head. He
      rubbed his forehead, sighing. "I'm distracted - not at my optimum
      self today."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mm," Draco said, in noncommital acknowledgment. "Anyway, if the
      Cappadocian plan doesn't seem enough, add another layer for the
      clever folk: have Moody 'investigate' the possibility that I've
      co-opted one of the Tower arithmancers, and that the windfall is
      actually your money. You've already been working on building up
      their mystique for years, so rumors of a rogue arithmancer would
      help with that, as well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All right," Harry agreed. He sounded unsettled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have you been sleeping enough, Harry?" asked Draco. "Or have
      you been spending half your time in the clinic tending to mermaids
      with mumps and Squibs with splinters, and half in here, scanning
      people's brains as they cast Goat Into Goblet?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why would anyone need a spell to… no, never mind," said Harry,
      rolling his eyes. "Yes, I've been getting plenty of sleep. There's
      just been a lot to keep track of. Managing the Tower and Britain
      and - well, the world - just keeps getting more complicated,
      especially without Hermione around." Draco pursed his lips, and
      Harry rushed on. "It's been good to rely on you, of course… but
      uniting the Treaties hasn't actually simplified the situation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you keep finding new projects," Draco said, agreeably.
      "Like ancient discoveries one of your Unspeakable or Tower minions
      brought back to you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked surprised. "How did..." He followed Draco's gaze to
      a nearby table, where a box of Macadam's Easy-Apply Melters was
      still out, and made a face. "Maybe I <em class="calibre7">am</em> tired," he
      muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The only reason you'd need repair strips would be if you were
      trying to fix something you couldn't transfigure," said Draco,
      smiling. "And that's a short list. Something we can use?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A book about Merlin," said Harry. "It's given me some ideas,
      but nothing I can use - unless I decide I'd really enjoy the
      entropic heat death of the universe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco didn't ask. "Then maybe give it a rest. Honestly, you
      should probably take a vacation. You have the government and the
      Confederation and Tower research and all of your little side
      projects, like the stupid movies and the sfaironauts and your
      theory of magic research. And you've been at this pace for… well,
      since we met. You can't keep it up forever; you're only a
      Ravenclaw."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe I just need some smarter Slytherins to help," said Harry.
      "Whatever happened to Vincent Crabbe?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Still trying to get something working in Nocturne Alley," Draco
      admitted. "He's never really forgiven me, and I rather think he'd
      like to be a power of his own. He backed a chandler's, but
      unfortunately I understand that investment's gone pear-shaped
      recently." It was an elegant retort and reminder of Draco's
      subtlety, but Draco didn't gloat, and allowed himself only the
      slightest smirk. "Anyway, just think of taking a few days off.
      Leave government to that gawky frump of a Weasley, the world to
      Bones, and everything else to Moody and me. Catch up on your
      reading."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Eventually I'm going to take an entire <em class="calibre7">year</em> off… I'll
      go to Japan and spend my days having fun in the lab," said Harry.
      "But not yet. Things are still delicate. I'll be fine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have a feeling this 'eventually' is scheduled sometime after
      everyone in the world has become free and immortal, there's a city
      on the Moon, and you've been able to take a quick little jaunt to
      Atlantis to pick up Dumbledore from outside of Time," said Draco.
      His voice was gentler than his words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're one minute from midnight, Draco," said Harry, firmly.
      "Muggles have had the capability to destroy the world for
      generations, now, and it's only by the grace of Petrov it hasn't
      happened yet. I'm not going to introduce wizards to science and
      then take a vacation at the most delicate point. It's too
      dangerous. Look at Edgar Erasmus and how we've had to juggle people
      like him, to keep everyone safe." He shook his head. "Merlin tried
      to shut down the forward march of knowledge, since he thought that
      magical power was spreading too quickly and too easily. I don't
      think he was right about the solution, but that doesn't mean he was
      wrong about the problem. We have to keep tight control over things
      for right now. It's too dangerous for everyone, otherwise."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Elsewhere in the Tower</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The same day</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Healer Owen Wilifred frowned. There was something very strange
      going on, here.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He glanced down at the patient, who was lying unconscious,
      immobile, and safely stunned. And older man of indeterminate
      ethnicity - Asia or India or someplace. Clearly never rejuvenated,
      and no external symptoms. But when Owen moved his wand lower on the
      patient's abdomen, he kept seeing the same thing: absolutely
      perfect internal organs, without a single flaw or oddity.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The diagnosis convivium seemed to be working correctly; when
      Owen placed his wand on his own stomach, the spell suite produced a
      vivid mental image of his intestines gently shifting. There was a
      familiar series of benign nodules along the outside of his colon,
      and his duodenum looked just as oddly lumpy as usual. But when Owen
      returned the wand to the patient and focused the diagnosis
      convivium back on him, there was not a single cyst, scar, or other
      irregularity. And no matter where he looked, it was the same. The
      patient's body was as perfect as the illustrations of a medical
      textbook, and that was simply strange… <em class="calibre7">especially</em> since he
      was complaining of general aches and pains. They didn't appear to
      have any irregularities at all, much less a condition that would
      cause any suffering.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Owen considered the possibilities. It was conceivable that the
      patient just happened to be a bizarrely perfect specimen who had
      never had any sort of trauma, despite what appeared to be at least
      six decades of life. That was very unlikely, though. It was also
      possible that the man - Mr. Khan, by his intake parchment - had
      been seriously hurt and had received magical healing to most of his
      body. But that usually left traces; Skele-grow, for example, left
      bones with a distinctive (if harmless) spiral pattern of
      nonlamellar and lamellar.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The most likely explanation that occurred to Owen, though, was
      also the most alarming one: that the patient had been one of the
      first wizards to receive rejuvenation. If that were the case, it
      might explain the fact that his appearance was still middle-aged.
      In the earliest days of the Tower, Owen had heard that they'd
      sometimes omitted the cosmetic restoration. If the patient had been
      one of the first to be rejuvenated, it might also explain why they
      didn't have any treatment records for him. Many of those early
      records had been lost in some sort of fire, years ago.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was also possible that Mr. Khan had been rejuvenated more
      recently, and had been granted special exemption from the cosmetic
      restoration. That was very rare, however, and it wouldn't explain
      the lack of a Tower record for the procedure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At this point, Owen really couldn't go any further without
      waking up the patient and eliminating some of these possibilities.
      He was beginning to be worried about time, though. The clock said
      that he had only about fifty minutes before Harry's next pass
      through the clinic. The Tower enchantments required Harry's express
      touch before any healing transfiguration would become permanent, so
      if Owen didn't get this solved and the healing done quickly, he'd
      be stuck with Mr. Khan until the next scheduled pass - three more
      hours.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Did he need an auror when he woke up the patient? Probably not.
      Mr. Khan wasn't important or powerful enough to have any sort of
      file, and he didn't have his wand, like every patient. Plus, Owen
      wasn't a bigot or anything, but he hadn't been able to help
      noticing that Mr. Khan's wand was so battered-looking that it must
      be second-hand (or even third-hand).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Still, protocol was protocol. The security at the Tower was
      incredibly complex, considering the difficulties of admitting and
      treating powerful strangers from all over the world, but it wasn't
      infallible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Owen stuck his head out of the screened-off examination cubicle,
      pushing aside the curtain. He called down the hall, "Wake-up here,
      need an auror!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A bored-looking auror came striding on down past the rows of
      cubicles, nodding. "Anything I need to know?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's a bit funny in his guts. I think he might have been an
      earlier rejuvenation - back before the Tower moved to this
      facility. I've heard about them… you were here then, right?" said
      Owen, handing over the sparse file that they'd started on Mr. Khan
      in the Receiving Room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," said Auror Madagascar. "I was stationed somewhere else,
      then. But I heard the same thing." He flipped open the file, but it
      had virtually no information beyond a few uninteresting personal
      details like place of origin (the Vedic Kingdom, though he was
      admitted via the Godric's Hollow pole), number of siblings (seven,
      all deceased), and the like. Madagascar shrugged. "Wake him
      up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Owen did so, after making sure a privacy spell was on and that
      Madagascar had raised the basic safety wards. That was just
      standard - some people didn't react well to waking up from the
      stunning effect of the Safety Stick or Safety Poles. A majority
      awoke as calmly though they were waking from a nap, but some people
      become disoriented and alarmed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The patient opened his eyes, gently, and blinked a moment. He
      tilted his head and took in the healer and the auror, then glanced
      around. A flicker of some expression passed over his face - not the
      usual fear or uncertainty or pain, but instead a shadow of
      apprehension. But it was gone as quickly as it came.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Am I all right?" Mr. Khan asked. He closed his eyes for a
      moment, and let out a long sigh.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Owen smiled. "You're fine, Mr. Khan. You're in the John Snow
      Center for Medicine. In the Tower. My name is Wilifred Owen. I'm a
      healer here. This is Harry Madagascar - he works here with me. We
      wanted to ask you a few questions, but if you need a moment to get
      oriented, take your time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The patient sat up, nodding. "May I stand up? Is that all
      right?" he asked, mildly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, sorry," said Owen. "It might make you dizzy. Just give it a
      minute." He stepped back next to Madagascar, but the auror waved
      him to the side. <em class="calibre7">Clear line of fire</em>, thought Owen, and
      restrained the temptation to roll his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mr. Khan shifted where he lay on the cot, moving carefully. He
      was wearing very simple brown robes, worn through in spots with
      use.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You told the healer you'd been feeling pains?" asked Owen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Mr. Khan. He turned to look at Owen, and then at
      Madagascar, and then jerked his head downward, sharply, cringing.
      He reached to his chest with one hand, and grimaced. "Again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Owen frowned, shaking his head. "I don't know what could be
      causing that... " He stepped forward again, lifting his wand.
      Behind him, he heard Madagascar move to one side - finding a good
      angle for a clear view. "Tell me, have you been here before, sir?"
      Owen set his wand on Mr. Khan's chest, and stared at the blank
      white wall of the cubicle as he focused on the view of the
      patient's organs afforded by the convivium. Everything looked
      pristine.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mr. Khan murmured something, quietly. Owen lowered his head a
      little. "Pardon?" The patient reached up and gently touched Owen's
      elbow, and repeated himself in a whisper.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I said, <em class="calibre7">Egeustimentis</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">And Owen went away for a while, and he and Mr. Khan were
      alone for a time in some narrow space. It seemed like hours, though
      it was only seconds.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">While they were there, Mr. Khan made some changes to the way
      Owen thought about things. Owen distantly observed the process, and
      found it interesting. It was as though Mr. Khan were simultaneously
      very large and very small, peering down from a great height at
      Owen's mind - even as he moved within it. Owen's mind, Owen noted,
      was a ceaselessly sliding mass of a thousand thousand thin layers
      of slippery jelly, undulating and quivering as they slithered into
      and over each other. Simultaneously, it was an intricate tracery of
      vinegar-smelling lights that touched each other and flared bright
      and faded. And it was a stabbing prickery of needles stabbing in
      and out of dark shapes that quietly sighed. And Owen's mind was
      other things as well, as need be.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Mr. Khan moved things and explained to Owen that he needed
      Owen to be a slightly different sort of person. Not very different,
      but different enough to help Mr. Khan. After it had all been
      explained, it made sense. They spoke for a long while. All the
      while that they spoke, Mr. Khan was moving
      jelly/lights/needles/switches/teeth. And at the end of this time,
      Owen had been both persuaded and altered, and he wasn't sure where
      the persuasion had ended and alteration had begun, or if there was
      even a division between the two, or if there was even a
      difference.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Owen agreed it was probably best that Mr. Khan set up a way
      for him to forget about the whole thing. Mr. Khan set up a pressure
      in Owen's mind, waiting to be released by a command word - thoughts
      and impulses forced out of place and bent into tension, ready to
      spring out along a chosen path. He would leave only the one
      pressure, Mr. Khan explained, because he didn't want to hurt Owen.
      When Mr. Khan triggered the release of that pressure, Owen's mind
      would snap back into place along that chosen path… and Owen would
      forget that he'd ever treated Mr. Khan, helped Mr. Khan, and even
      that he'd ever known this Mr. Khan existed. By that time,
      everything would be all over.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Everything would be all right, Mr. Khan said. They'd sort
      everything out.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">And then</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wilifred, you all right?" asked Madagascar.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Owen turned around. "Sure. Just can't figure this out." He
      shrugged, and turned away from the patient. "Mr. Khan, just relax
      for a moment. Let me get another healer to consult. We have some
      excellent people on staff here at the Tower, and we'll do what it
      takes to sort everything out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Begin by asking students to consider how a rumor might
      spread among a population. Suppose on Day 1 a single person tells
      someone else a rumor, and suppose that on every subsequent day,
      each person who knows the rumor tells exactly one other person the
      rumor. Have students ponder, discuss and answer questions like:
      "How many days until 50 people have heard the rumor? 100 people?
      The whole school? The whole country?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">In the situation with the rumor, the number of people who
      have heard the rumor doubles every day; this is because, each day,
      every person who knows the rumor tells it to a new person. In other
      words, there is a 100 percent transmission rate: 100 percent of
      those who know the rumor spread it to someone else. A transmission
      rate this high means that the number of people who know the rumor
      will grow very quickly. In fact, in this simplified exponential
      model, one person could spread the rumor to the entire population
      of the United States in less than a month!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Exponential Outbreaks: The Mathematics of Epidemics," Patrick
      Honner</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
