<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>46. Significant Digits pt2 - Significant Digits Chapter 49: Commentarii de Bello, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="46. Significant Digits pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s21" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 49: Commentarii de Bello</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">CRAD: Now you understand that these are the deadly years for
      wizards. [Throws KARL's bloodstained necklace onto the ground in
      front of ERIN.] The metamorphosis of the world has begun… no more
      the plaything of the tall and beautiful!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">[The remaining ATTENDANT takes notice, abandoning the corpse
      of his friend. He jumps up and down with joy, yelling and grimacing
      with savagery and waving his torch.]</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">ERIN: The Lady O'Bruinan will save me.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">CRAD: [Strikes her across the face with a bloody hand. It
      leaves a mark of blood across her face. The blood is a symbol of
      violence.] Fool! I have destroyed Sontag, and should the aged Lady
      appear in my arena, here, I shall show her a taste of armageddon…
      as I did your mad lover!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">[EXSES enters from stage right with a clamour of thunder,
      clad all in gold. In her left hand is a wand, and in her right is a
      spear.]</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">EXSES: I am come! I have seen the terrors you have wrought
      upon my people of Sontag, and I have brought my vengeance!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">[CRAD and ATTENDANT cower back from EXSES. CRAD seizes
      ATTENDANT and pushes him at EXSES. She strikes him down with her
      spear, and there is another clamour of thunder.]</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">ERIN: My Lady! I never lost hope!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">CRAD: No, no, no!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">[CRAD wails and strips off his necklace of wizard teeth,
      flinging it to the ground. It lands next to KARL's
      necklace.]</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">EXSES: Yes! I will bring the goblins low for their crimes, a
      deserved punishment for their deeds! [She raises her spear, holding
      it high.] Thus do I condemn them: let them scrape in metal and toil
      in tin! Let them fear to raise their heads, lest those heads be
      struck from their shoulders! The blood of Sontag demands it - and
      let all know their just reward for such bloody deeds as have been
      done this day!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">[CRAD collapses, wailing. ERIN inclines her head, and leans
      down to pick up KARL's necklace. She pauses, and then brings her
      delicate foot down upon CRAD's necklace, ruining it. ALL
      exit.]</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">[The stage darkens, and a spotlight focuses on CRAD's
      necklace. It is a symbol of hubris.]</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">- "The Last Days of Exses O'Bruinan," by S. Leigh, as staged in
      the 1979 London production.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">John Snow Center for Medicine and Tower School of Doubt (The
      Tower)</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">May 19th, 1999</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The same day</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There," said Meldh, lifting his hand from Harry's wrist. "Think
      back, and see if you can remember anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shut his eyes, standing silently. It was very quiet in the
      blank span of corridor where they stood, near the rear of the Tower
      - there were no distractions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a while, Harry opened his eyes again. "No, sir. I can't
      remember anything about where Voldemort might be. And I seem to
      remember all about the Tower departments, otherwise. There's no
      obvious gap that might provide a clue." He paused. "Thank you, sir,
      for leaving me with everything else."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It seemed cruel to take all of that away from you," said Meldh,
      nodding.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, sir," said Harry, smiling. His smile faded, though,
      as he said hesitantly, "Sir, before we go back to the others, I
      think we should talk about your succession to my place - at least
      in the broad strokes, so I can begin thinking about how to help. I
      know that you believe the Lethe Touch to be infallible, but there's
      no reason to risk it. It's basic information hygiene."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Meldh waved a hand, dismissively. "There is no concern. I will
      take your identity and you will become a new person. We will alter
      the trajectory you have chosen for the world, using the tools you
      have put at my command."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, sir," Harry said, shaking his head. "There are serious
      problems there. For one, the new terminal values you've given us
      are too…" He fumbled for words. "There's too much internal
      conflict, sir. It shows on our faces, and it will lead to strange
      behavior at some point. It will be like an Asimov story with the
      Three Laws… outside observers will be able to deduce from aberrant
      behavior that there are new underlying rules. Many people are very
      loyal to me, but no one is <em class="calibre7">absolutely</em> loyal, to the extent
      where my will and wishes are their most important goals."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We have taken dozens of your allies here, but I have set up a
      pressure within them," Meldh said. "They are enchanted in the same
      fashion as yourself, but there is a capacity for release by
      recasting the Touch and adding -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No!" said Harry, abruptly, holding up his hand. "I don't need
      to know! Information hygiene." Sheepishly, he lowered his hand,
      smiling a bit. "Sorry, sir, but there's no need to tell me the
      command word… it can't possibly help. Yes, you can trust me
      absolutely, right now, but what if I were to get free somehow? The
      best weapon you'd have in that situation would be your control of
      almost all of my closest friends… I'm going to be substantially
      weaker if any attack on you risks killing Draco or Moody - or even
      if your death would just leave all of my friends as your servants,
      forever."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do not worry, Mr. Potter," said Meldh, kindly. "There is no
      risk that you will go free. No one has ever defeated the Lethe
      Touch by sheer willpower, and there is no spell known to you or any
      of your allies that could dispel the enchantment. We now possess
      the only real trust that can ever exist between two people."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about my Unbreakable Vow, sir?" asked Harry. "It's an
      obvious problem… what if you ask me to do something that might
      destroy the world?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Meldh folded his hands in his sleeves. "You will not be able to
      comply, of course. But the results would be the same if I asked you
      to fetch me a Lethifold's smile- you could not do it, but neither
      would the Touch fail. I spent some time examining your mind, Mr.
      Potter, and I assure you that there is no power known to you that
      poses a threat to me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry fell silent, and leaned back against the wall of the
      corridor. Meldh waited, patiently. After a time, Harry spoke up
      again, saying, "When I think about possible contingency plans for
      something like this, it seems obvious I would have prepared
      something and stored the memory in a Pensieve, or just erased it
      with such care as to leave no traces. Of course, if I thought of a
      contingency once, I should be able to think of it again, so it
      would also be necessary to erase the memories that led me to the
      plan in the first place."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then we're no better off for the wondering," said Meldh,
      chuckling mildly. "You cannot worry or defend against the unknown,
      since it can take any shape. The key to great strength is defending
      against every known, whether it appears a threat or not, and
      staying <em class="calibre7">hidden</em> from the unknown."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I disagree, sir. It's possible to plan for the unknown - you
      can make a path for it or put in place some contingency that
      embraces a host of possibilities. And I am fairly sure that I must
      have at least <em class="calibre7">tried</em> to do so. The way magic works, it was
      never an outlandish idea that someone old and powerful might show
      up and take offense. I knew for certain that people like Nicholas
      Flamel were out there. Given the long history of the world and the
      fact that magic was once much more powerful, it was actually more
      likely than not that there would be some immortals out there."
      Harry shrugged. "I should have perhaps even foreseen you yourself,
      sir. The inventor of the Horcrux spell? It seems obvious, in
      retrospect. Maybe I <em class="calibre7">did</em> foresee it, actually."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Meldh looked amused. "You and Voldemort share the same opinion
      of your abilities. You will forgive me for saying that I do not,
      Mr. Potter. My victory was not a difficult one, and cost scarcely
      even a pawn's worth of trouble."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "That seems suspicious to me, sir." Then he
      opened his mouth, as though to go on speaking, but made no sound.
      He grimaced and shook his head, accidentally rapping it against the
      wall and wincing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Meldh watched him, and replied to the unaskable question. "No,
      Mr. Potter," he said gently. "I do not think it is necessary to
      kill you now, out of fear of some possible trap you've laid.
      Rather, I will need your help.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Once I take my place as the new Mr. Potter, you will be by my
      side in some altered shape, as an adjunct and adviser," he said. "I
      will release all others - they will continue to serve 'you,' and
      the Tower will move in a new direction to <em class="calibre7">decisively</em> end
      magic. Your Muggle knowledge will be turned to proper ends… without
      your foolishness." He chortled, amiably. "Some things can even be
      done immediately, to help stave off the end of the world and its
      people. There is at least one new ritual we may enact, based on
      your knowledge. To think what you would have let go to waste - for
      the sake of some distant bits of fire!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at the ground, his face uncomfortable. "Sir, I
      considered it to be immoral, especially when there are alternatives
      that don't increase entropy in the universe so much. And…" Harry
      fumbled over his words clumsily, as though many ideas were fighting
      for expression at the same time. "And many stars have the
      possibility of life, either now or in the future, and that risk is
      so apocalyptically bad that it overwhelms any benefit to an
      individual life here, and when we reach the second type on the
      Kardashev scale we'll then be confronted with a loss of useful
      energy on a scale of… of… well, I don't even know how to make a
      comparison! Obviously it would be like sacrificing our own Sun,
      but… well, it would be like a wiping out every scrap of phoenix
      flame that ever existed and could ever exist, all to save one
      person."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His voice wasn't rising, but it was filled with strange tension,
      as though he weren't arguing with Meldh, but were arguing with
      himself. He kept talking, though, fumbling through in a rush. "And
      we might not even need to do that! The Advancement Agency has made
      amazing strides in only a few years. With reconfiguring parts
      alone, they'll raise life expectancy. The prostate, the heart, the
      optic nerve, the retina, the spine, the knees, the teeth, the
      heart… there are all sorts of design fixes that will reduce the
      chances of morbidity. Making them a part of the standard
      rejuvenation and putting in greater security - even perhaps with
      the aid of the Touch, sir - will put us well ahead of the curve on
      a new Moore's Law of lifespan."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," said Meldh, flatly... that short and curt blade of a word.
      "We will not wait, not when the new ritual will be so simple to
      devise - with some little study of your Muggle knowledge about the
      stars. Not one more minute, as the saying goes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry choked a little in his throat, then hung his head, and
      made no reply. He stared at the floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To think I feared to come here, considering it an unwarranted
      risk," marveled Meldh, shaking his head and gesturing down the
      corridor. "Come. We must arrange for the death of the fallen
      bishop, Bellatrix Black, and take what actions are necessary to
      suborn the absentee goblins, and set them, too, on the correct
      path." He smiled at the thought. "Then I have some preparations to
      make before I step outside of this Tower to consult with my
      allies."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry began moving obediently, and they began walking back to
      the meeting room. Meldh glanced at him, and spoke, his voice kind.
      "The new immortals of the world, the ones that we choose to aid us
      in our cause, will have cause to praise my risk and your losses,
      Mr. Potter. There are endless stars in the sky… more than enough
      for every witch and wizard we might select."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">On the shores of the lake of teeth, where the black hills
      end, Tír inna n-Óc</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">May 19th, 1999</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Later that day</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Whispering teeth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fractal shadows.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Desolation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have succeeded… well done," said the third figure - Nell.
      Her congratulations were light and pleasant, but none the more
      convincing for that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," said the first figure - Meldh. "We have swept the
      board."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The second figure said nothing, only watching them both.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have Touched the boy-king… will you leave him in charge?"
      asked Nell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," said Meldh. "I will take his shape and his identity. He
      has built a formidable apparatus, and I think that few threats now
      exist that could stand against it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You do not think that you might be, perhaps overconfident? Is
      your control already so sure?" asked Nell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Meldh paused and did not reply for a time. The second figure,
      silent still, turned a face of slithering shadow to regard him,
      watching intently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My pride prompts me to deny you, but <em class="calibre7">mirgo que n'a qu'un
      trpu est bientôt prise</em>… yes, perhaps you are correct," said
      Meldh, finally. "Mr. Potter himself said as much to me, not an hour
      ago. I had thought to use the goblins as an excuse to change
      policy, but even a goblin army may not be sufficient to rouse
      enough alarm and stem the suspicion of his allies."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you require further assistance, then you shall have it,"
      said the second figure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We are gambling a great deal," agreed Nell. "You shall have
      every support we can offer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then so be it," said Meldh. "I will not turn away one ounce of
      assistance. And for my part, I find that I will not have need of
      the Stone of the Long Song, so long as you would still be willing
      to lend its power on occasion, Madame."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," said Nell, and the shadows writhed in some distant
      imitation of a smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," said the second figure. "That shall not be sufficient. Now
      is not the time for conservative policies. We must take this
      opportunity to act. Our hand is in play - we will make it a fist.
      Now is the time to act. We will do as we have not done in many
      years. Sontag once thrived and threatened, rich on the concentrated
      lore of the Peverells, and made a perfect plum to be plucked. You
      fear preparations against you? Let us swamp them in violence."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is that not hasty?" asked Meldh.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even Nell seemed startled by the proposition. "I will commit all
      to the enterprise, if necessary, but I think -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We will raise mighty forces. Armies. I will act with all
      puissance at my command," said the second figure, as though the
      others had not spoken. "Not only the goblins, strong with the
      restored knowledge of their ancient will-work. Also the visc and
      lejis of this place will take breath again, driven by the
      gaunt-horrors. I will break the cycle of the unsleeping, and bring
      forth your long-vanished terrasque and basilisks. Muggles in their
      hordes will take the eaters on themselves. They will march, we will
      sacrifice many… and take the opportunity to wipe away the magics of
      London, Boston, and Hangzhou."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am not sure that…" said Nell, hesitantly. "We have not acted
      on such a scale since…" She shook her head, darkness swirling.
      "Never. This is audacity truly worthy of Merlin. And unspeakably
      risky."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thus shall it be, Perenelle du Marais," said the second figure.
      He did not wait for a reply, but turned to Meldh, and stated, "Thus
      shall it be, Heraclius Hero. We will sweep the world with discord
      and blood, crush a thousand artifacts and burn a thousand scrolls,
      and raise such fear as has never been seen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a desperately long pause, when none of them moved.
      They were not as such to act in haste, despite the brutal
      decisiveness they could bring to such conversations. All Three
      waited, patiently, for the others to come to terms with the new
      shape of the world to come.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tentatively, Nell said, "In the face of such a threat, those
      remaining wizards will unite behind the Tower. Behind you." She
      looked back at Meldh.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Behind <em class="calibre7">us</em>," corrected Meldh, mildly. "And I think we
      will have no resistance, then, in a push to redouble the Statute of
      Secrecy's strictures and limit the scope and growth of magic. The
      plan will need further thought to arrange all of the pieces, but
      there will be resources to spare, now that I have mastered the
      Tower."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You disposed of Bellatrix Black and Voldemort," said the second
      figure - a question that was not really a question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have made arrangements for the death of the Black woman, but
      there are... complications with Voldemort. I actually have much to
      say to you about Horcruxes at another time. I have sealed Voldemort
      away, however, and erased all memory of his hiding place. It will
      suffice, I think," said Meldh.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Kill Potter, as well," said the second figure. "Whatever his
      lore, the risk is too great. And we need no more
      <em class="calibre7">complications.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As you wish, although the odd patterns of his brain have been
      fruitful," said Meldh, untroubled. "I will strip his mind of what
      else might be gleaned, and then end him." He inclined his head,
      gently. "I will send signal for our next meeting presently, after
      concluding such matters. We will plan for our war and arrange our
      pieces."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said the second figure. "Consider, each of you, the
      utmost of your might. We will spare no energy or lore in the
      conflict to come. Victory must be certain for us to take such a
      risk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All three departed, each their separate ways.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Whispering teeth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fractal shadows.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Desolation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tír inna n-Óc endured.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">John Snow Center for Medicine and Tower School of Doubt (The
      Tower)</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">May 19th, 1999</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The afternoon of the same day</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Upon his return to the Tower, Meldh appeared tired. He walked
      with heavy feet out of the annex next to the Receiving Room, where
      he'd performed the ritual. His fingers were still bloody, wet with
      the necessary components of a trip to the land of the Unseelie.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For a moment, the assured and calm wizard was gone. He looked
      the same… dusky skin, dark eyes, broad lips. But he looked weary
      and battered, and it was enough to bring a worried Moody to his
      side with gruff but concerned questions. Meldh waved away the
      Tower's spymaster, and stepped through the golden oval of the Tower
      entrance. Harry waited just inside, frowning and unhappy,
      accompanied by Diggory. Both young men looked immensely relieved to
      see their master alive, though their worried glances at each other
      showed their distress at his state.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sir, we're holding some people in Material Methods," said
      Diggory, speaking first. He and Harry walked along with Meldh down
      the corridor, slowly, towards the clinic. "Madame Bones, Percy
      Weasley, Councilor Reg Hig, and seven aurors reporting for their
      normal shifts. All stunned and waiting for you. And there is
      regular Tower business… people to heal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good, good," said Meldh, slowly. "Harry must go and attend to
      matters. But I must rest. Keep the prisoners stunned and secured
      for now. Anything else?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ackle and Curd have both sent away emissaries from Minister
      N'goma," said Harry, studying Meldh closely. "And Hermione Granger
      sent a message to let me know she'd be here this evening. All is
      well with your allies?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine," said Meldh. He sighed, heavily. "Ah, but… forgive my
      weariness, but there is such <em class="calibre7">violence</em> in the offing, Mr.
      Potter. I confess that I did not anticipate it, and the very
      thought makes me ache for my garden and my home and my temple. I
      fear I will not see them for a great while, and that is not a
      discomfort I have needed to endure for many years." He shook his
      head. Harry touched him on the arm, reassuringly, and the older
      wizard glanced down at the hand and smiled a small smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sir, I'm sorry, but we should prepare for Granger," said
      Diggory, breaking in on the moment. "She is resourceful and her
      Returned are insane."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am too tired, young man," said Meldh. "Mr. Potter, make plans
      accordingly." He sighed again. "I must rest. There will be war
      soon, and the world will shake because of it. A great and fearsome
      god calls for blood. That is not something I have seen for
      centuries. I must rest and think."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took hold of Diggory's arm, restraining him, and they
      stopped in their tracks. Meldh continued on, moving slowly. He
      vanished from sight into the clinic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is for the best, Cedric," said Harry. "I'm not sure that
      he would be able to appreciate the threat that Hermione could
      present, but we do. Let's make a plan."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
