<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>46. Significant Digits pt2 - Significant Digits Chapter 55: Antepenultimate, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="46. Significant Digits pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s27" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 55: Antepenultimate</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Receiving Room, Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and
      Wizardry</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Now</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was a defining moment. Gregor Nimue knew that. Everyone was
      leaning on him to break protocol, and he was standing fast.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a shining moment, and it was a long time coming.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Considering his experience and skill, he should have been
      Terminus of the Receiving Room a long time ago. He had twice the
      lore and three times the brains of any other Tower Auror, and it
      was practically a crime that he'd been sidelined for so long. He'd
      spent <em class="calibre7">years</em> chafing under the command of inferiors, stuck
      on chizpurfle duty or some other nonsense - all because he'd had
      the bad luck to be on the Azkaban rotation on the night that
      veela-giant crossbreed dropped out of the sky on a phoenix and
      knocked the place flat. An entire detail of good and experienced
      aurors were dropped down to sentinel duty the very next week, and
      Gregor had been taking orders from idiots ever since.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And what was even better, the very week he was finally back in a
      decent posting - Terminus, a job with some real heft - was one more
      in a series of crazy weeks. The blastbombings in Diagon and
      Tidewater, the start of the Treaty of Independence, an attack by
      some worthless students with a hundred doxies, the One-Day War, the
      attack by Bellatrix Black, and now some sort of takeover attempt at
      the same time that everywhere else in the world was going to pot.
      Too many people had been burnt out or hurt or both, and so good old
      Gregor's career was finally <em class="calibre7">finally</em> heading back to the
      top.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were protocols for things like this, for powerful wizards
      who might manage to evade security and put people under their
      control, and Gregor followed them to the <em class="calibre7">letter</em>. As soon
      as McGonagall sent word about a message she'd received, he'd given
      the signal. They'd rolled the shield and locked down the Tower, and
      no power on the planet could make him open it until he was
      satisfied that the Tower hadn't been compromised. That was the
      rule. That was his role. The Terminus was the first and last guard
      against attack - from <em class="calibre7">either</em> side of the Tower's golden
      doorway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Injured wizards, witches, and Squibs arrived and were sent to
      nearby chambers in Hogwarts, stabilized as well as could be done by
      a skeleton crew of the less-skilled aurors. Gregor kept his best
      stationed near him - and that necessity became even more apparent
      when entire squads of foreign Hit Wizards and auror teams arrived.
      Some of the most famous battle wizards and duelists in the world
      appeared on the summons of the Headmistress of Hogwarts and the
      Tower and some American muckitymuck. The Boston Brahmins didn't
      even arrive stunned; they spun into existence fully awake and
      aware, which meant that they'd used an <em class="calibre7">illegal Tower
      portkey</em> that didn't have the security enchantments. Gregor'd
      need to report that - earn another point in his favor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the story became clear, he'd let out messages and he'd let in
      a handful of runners and representatives, but still: no one left. A
      strange and powerful wizard had tried to take over and failed…
      fine, a good story, but would it be any different if a strange and
      powerful wizard had tried to take over and <em class="calibre7">succeeded</em>?
      Lockdown remained in place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even when he heard that the Ministry itself was under attack,
      and that the dregs of the aurors who'd been sitting idle in
      Hogsmeade or some other Knut-ante place had spotted a crowd of
      Muggles, Gregor knew better. He did his job. Americans, Russians,
      Koreans, and seemingly a thousand angry British including all the
      most powerful people he knew were all putting pressure on him, and
      he did his job.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a shining moment, and it was a long time coming.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lift the lockdown, Nimue!" shouted Auror Hedley Kwannon, "It's
      been nearly thirty minutes! Don't you know what's
      <em class="calibre7">happening</em> out there?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't <em class="calibre7">you</em> know what protocol is, Kwannon?" snapped
      back Gregor. He was off to the side of the door, out of its line of
      sight, but he knew she must be fuming. One more bit of consolation:
      knowing one of the Tower's pets was being treated like everyone
      else for a change. He'd already heard that another one of them,
      that flinty Kraeme woman, had been badly injured.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If he found out that Pirrip had fallen off his broom and broken
      his neck while mooning after the Diggory brat-in-charge, then
      Gregor's day would be complete.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't have to let them out, but you're going to let us in,"
      rumbled the biggest of the three Chinese wizards who'd been
      pestering Gregor for the last twenty minutes. He didn't approach
      too closely - not with fifty Tower Aurors on alert, wands ready for
      conflict (from either direction).</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">And if this whole thing were a ploy and it was you lot
      behind it, wouldn't that just what you'd bloody want?</em> Gregor
      thought. <em class="calibre7">Although all things considered, it's still most likely
      that Mad-Eye is the one behind the whole thing, somehow.</em> He
      smiled a mocking smile right at the Chinese Hit Wizard, although
      all he said was a courteous, "No, sir. Sorry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two of the Tower Aurors exchanged an uneasy glance, but didn't
      lower their wands. Gregor noticed, and noted who it was.
      Unreliable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have every confirmation code and you have Patronus
      verification from five of us," shouted Kwannon. "That <em class="calibre7">is</em>
      the protocol!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I still have discretion," called back Gregor, "and I haven't
      seen anything th-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. That's enough now, Nimue," said a new voice, with a tone of
      command that was leather-tough. Madame Bones. His former leader in
      the DMLE, before she leapt up four or five rungs to Supreme Mugwump
      and Chief Warlock. "If the Tower has been compromised somehow, then
      it's past proof and past solution. You'll end the lockdown right
      now. Innocent people are dying."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregor considered. <em class="calibre7">She's right. And I've made my name. If
      this was a Mad-Eye test, then I've made my reputation. And if not…
      well, this will probably still be good for me.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine," he said. And before he'd even said a word more, tense
      aurors were lowering their wands with a sigh. The sharper ones were
      in immediate, rapid motion: heading to the bunched-up crowd sorting
      itself into a queue to get through the narrow Tower entrance, or
      going the opposite way to the rest of Hogwarts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregor turned to one of the aurors in charge of scanning. "We'll
      need to sort out who is available for assistance outside…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But his voice trailed off as he watched a ripple shift through
      the witches and wizards around the Tower entrance. They cleared a
      path.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione Granger strode through the path, out of the Tower. Her
      step was brisk and her face was tight. She had her wand out - and
      her other hand looked oddly pinkish, as though it had been
      sunburnt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was a shining moment, Gregor knew. The same person who'd
      broken his career would now reward him for keeping to the rules at
      the moment when it had been the most difficult, and when there'd
      been every reason to give in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He stepped forward to meet her. "Madame Granger, I hope you
      -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Goddess didn't even slow down. She walked forward like he
      wasn't there, and her shoulder swept Gregor aside like a curtain of
      iron as he tried to hastily get out of her way. He staggered
      backwards, met an obstacle behind one heel, and lost his balance.
      He landed on his rear, awkwardly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No one took much notice - too many things going on - except for
      the few people near him (including the bass-voiced Chinese auror,
      who had stuck a foot out behind Gregor).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He watched the Goddess sweep through the room and out, and then
      she was gone, two witches right on her heels and dozens of aurors
      and others rushing in their wake, following her with grim faces.
      Almost before she'd vanished from the room, though, there came
      someone else - the only person, perhaps, who could draw even more
      attention than Hermione Granger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cedric, take anyone not vital who can cast a Patronus," said
      Harry Potter, walking briskly up to the Tower entrance. He was
      wearing simple garments - trousers and a vest beneath plain robes.
      "Communications are now the most important thing you can do. We can
      bring reinforcements here quickly with Safety Sticks, but moving
      them after that is harder, so -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So we need to know exactly what threats are where, and now,"
      finished the Chief Auror and Head of the DMLE, walking alongside
      and just behind the Tower.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Potter nodded, sharply, and then a look of uncertainty flashed
      over his face. His stride broke, and he halted. He was standing
      inside the golden oval of the Tower, looking out at the Receiving
      Room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregor stood up and turned to the side, trying to follow the
      Tower's gaze. He glanced around the room. Nothing unusual now but a
      relatively plain stone room with the usual decorations - the tables
      of Dark Detectors, the shelves of chizpurfles, the few pieces of
      other furniture. It was crowded with combat-ready wizards, and
      injured people were arriving at a steady rate, but there were no
      apparent threats. There didn't seem to be any reason for the Tower
      to hesitate… was he nervous about any remaining danger? That didn't
      seem possible, considering how often Potter had been in serious
      peril. Just a couple of months ago, he'd nearly been blown up in
      Diagon, and just today there'd been an attempt to cast some sort of
      Imperius Curse on him. <em class="calibre7">He is just a child, after all. A child
      who's taken charge of the world, but a child. With a stupid
      haircut, too.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Madame Bones stepped up from somewhere behind Potter. She said
      something too soft to hear, and then put a hand on his back and
      gave him a gentle but firm push forward. The Tower stepped forward
      and out of his eponymous facility, and took a deep breath. He
      closed his eyes. He looked pale.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then the moment passed, and Potter was turning to yet another
      person walking with him - a blonde-haired witch - and telling her
      to get everything ready, and to remember everything he'd said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nimue found himself pushed to the side by several aurors, and
      then again by a scornful blonde wizard - was that <em class="calibre7">Draco
      Malfoy?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're the one who was Terminus and kept us here? Well done,
      you fool," sneered Malfoy. He didn't stop, but walked on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Things weren't supposed to go this way. This wasn't
      <em class="calibre7">fair</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good going -" "- you complete bollocks," said a pair of
      red-haired Hit Wizards with bizarre cheer as they walked by.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I followed protocol!" Gregor protested. "I just did what I was
      supposed to do!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You did the right thing, Nimue," Bones said, staring at him.
      Her voice was cool. "What an odd time to begin such behavior." Then
      she turned away from him, too, looking at another auror who'd
      emerged from the Tower behind her. "Madagascar, you're in charge
      here. Get everyone moving. Get everyone you can outside, to help
      Granger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stepped to one side of the Mirror, which sat as impossibly
      solid as ever, embedded in the masonry of Hogwarts as though it
      were a piece of interior decoration: a fancy accessory to the
      castle, rather than the most potent magical device known to still
      exist.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Cup of Midnight might have been stronger, once. They hadn't
      been able to find much information about that ancient device, which
      came to them now only in scant shards, but Hopkirk's best guess was
      that the Cup had been the method by which the Interdict was
      enacted. Around the same time, the Cup was broken and Merlin lost
      his life and his time. Occam's Razor suggested that all three
      events were perhaps related, although contradictory legends told
      many different stories.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a time when Harry couldn't have imagined making a
      decision like that… a decision on behalf of humanity. On some
      level, of course, every little decision tasted of eternity. But to
      consciously choose a path for the future of mankind, to make a
      gamble in the name of human intelligence… well, that had been the
      fate of a precious few.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And now Harry was going to join them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The scramble he'd inspired with his order to evacuate the Tower
      had caused something like a panic, especially when added to the
      chaos of the attacks and the tension of the lockdown. Healers and
      officials and researchers and diplomats and friends first tried to
      enter the Tower, only to find themselves turned back: Moody stood
      just inside, where the two main corridors split off, and roared
      orders. There were suddenly too few aurors, where only minutes ago
      there had been far too many, but those remaining worked to clear
      out the entire facility. The Records Room was emptied, desperate
      researchers were permitted a single trip to retrieve anything they
      needed from the departments, and every last straggler was forced
      out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At least one researcher fought back, recklessly, after his
      request to return and retrieve his personal Pensieve was denied. He
      was stunned and removed. But while there was a great deal of
      complaining and even some tears, most accepted the warnings without
      such a drastic reaction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Probably a lot of them don't really believe that anything is
      going to happen to the Tower - they expect to be able to come back
      after the alarm dies down. They don't know that it's going to…
      well, I don't even know what will happen to it.</em> Harry stared
      at the Mirror. It stood immobile: a fixed point of supernal
      obdurance. If it were possible to truly conceptualize the
      supermassive black hole at the center of the galaxy, this is what
      he imagined it would be like: potent beyond reckoning and more
      solid than existence. Not that he'd ever had occasion to see a
      black hole. His mouth twisted in a wry smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at the golden circle of the Mirror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had to do this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had to make himself do this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Kwannon kept most people from bothering him with their urgent
      pleas for assistance or exceptions. She blocked their path
      physically - or with wards when necessary - to keep his corner of
      the Receiving Room empty, off to the side of the Tower entrance. He
      was startled, then, when he felt a hand tug on his sleeve. He
      turned to find Auror Pirrip, looking sweaty but grinning broadly.
      He glanced over Pip's shoulder at Kwannon, but she was smiling,
      too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Potter! You're never going to believe… the goblins,
      sir!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry felt a sick feeling in his gut. He knew what this was
      about, and celebrations were not in order.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Every round for countless rounds, wizards defected instead
      of cooperating. What did we expect would happen?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let me guess: they attacked, but we won." He sighed, and turned
      away, to stare at the Mirror again. "It's been building for weeks,
      now. Well, no, it's been building for years. And the frustrating
      thing is that it's impossible to even blame them, or feel happy
      about winning. It doesn't change anything, and it actually makes
      things <em class="calibre7">worse</em> in a lot of ways. I don't think moral
      culpability is heritable, but centuries of structural inequality
      and outright oppression can't be ignored for -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sir!" interrupted Pip, putting a hand on Harry's arm again, his
      urgency overriding his patience and respect. "They're fighting with
      us - fighting for us! Everywhere! They've saved the Cypriot Hold
      and Beauxbatons. They've saved <em class="calibre7">Godric's Hollow!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">That's… my god, that's better than we deserve. That's better
      than any of us deserve.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was amazing. It was a touch of grace. It was a shining
      moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry felt his eyes fill with tears, and a smile spread
      helplessly across his face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Everything is going to hell, Mr. Potter," said Pip, smiling
      back, "but we're not alone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sir!" said Kwannon, behind Pip, one arm raised to stop a
      panic-faced auror. "They need you! The Goddess is out there,
      but…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Things must be bad and getting worse. And it was time. The
      Receiving Room was almost empty, except for healers. Almost
      everyone who could fight was gone, and everyone else was trying to
      secure themselves away with the students - down in the dungeons, he
      supposed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody and a last team of aurors emerged, floating two stunned
      stragglers along in their wake. Moody gave Harry a heavy nod, his
      face sadder than Harry had seen it since Albus Dumbledore had been
      lost beyond time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Harry to Kwannon. He turned back to the Mirror. And
      now he felt ready. "I can do this. But then we're going to the
      library, not outside. Let Hermione do her thing - I'll do
      mine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He stepped in front of the entrance to the Tower - the pocket
      world of his creation. The world of his volition. He felt for his
      wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Muffliato,</em>" he cast.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Noitilov," he said. And the surface of the Mirror changed, and
      just like that, the John Snow Center for Medicine and the Tower
      School of Doubt was gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">What a waste</em>, Hermione thought, grimly. She pulled her
      broom up and away from the entrance to the castle. <em class="calibre7">What a
      heroic waste.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The defenders could have done any number of things differently,
      if they'd been willing to rethink their situation or defy
      convention. They'd fought like they'd always fought: with
      incredible bravery but limited creativity.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The castle fell away behind her as she flew upwards, set on the
      steep hill that edged upon the waters of the Black Lake. The
      staircase down the hill was gone, bitten away halfway down by the
      teeth of rubble that were strewn at the bottom. The Hogwarts
      grounds, normally a gentle rise of grass from the main gates from
      Hogsmeade all the way to the castle, were a torn mass of detritus
      and the dead, still intermingled with the scrambling mass of people
      who were pouring in from Hogsmeade in an endless stream. There were
      thousands, perhaps tens of thousands. Perhaps more. She'd heard
      that a million people could fit within Tiananmen Square in Beijing,
      and tried to estimate based on that. Considering all the chaos and
      the impassable areas… how many people was she looking at?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She picked a portion of ground and did a quick Fermi estimate,
      counting the living and dead on that portion and extrapolating to
      the whole field.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ninety thousand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a dull thump from far below, and a line of silver
      smoke arrowed through the air. Hermione watched as it arced gently
      downward, and hit the wrought-iron apex atop the Hufflepuff
      greenhouse. The missile exploded. It actually did little damage,
      except for a multitude of broken glass. But she could see rifles
      and numerous simpler weapons among the crowd, too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Well,</em> and she couldn't believe she was thinking this
      and very carefully reminded herself of the moral equivalencies and
      the slippery slope of the thought but even so she still couldn't
      help but think, <em class="calibre7">they are just Muggles, after all.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione dipped her broom sharply, dropping dangerously quickly
      to the ground. She pulled up just short of the gathering aurors.
      Every moment, more were arriving from outside. She took a moment to
      assess who was there and what their known capabilities were. A
      formidable force, even against an army like this. And if they
      fought smartly, they could win this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Returned were there. Simon was missing. In turn, Hermione
      met the eyes of Urg, Charlevoix, Esther, Nikitas, Tonks, Susie, and
      Hyori. She didn't say anything, and neither did they. There was
      nothing that needed to be said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Brahmins and Rakshasa," she said, firmly, jabbing her finger at
      the elite American and Russian auror squads. "You're in the air. I
      want to know about everything that happens. Stay high. You're not
      fighting, you're keeping yourself protected. If you seen an
      opportunity, you tell the Jīngluò or the Three Treasures." She
      indicated the Chinese and Korean squads. "They're going to be
      working in teams, protecting each other and attacking. You'll be
      transfiguring things I'll tell you - dangerous things. Things
      you're never supposed to transfigure. But you're going to do it,
      because it's the only way to stay alive… and the only way to save
      countless other lives."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione waited a moment, anticipating arguments or demands
      about her authority. But there were none - just confident nods and
      cool determination. They knew of the Goddess. They knew the
      reputation of the Tower.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She turned to the British forces. "Shichinin and Omega, you've
      the most experience fighting Muggles. Defend this ground. Half of
      you will be on the battlements… this is a castle, use the cover. I
      have more ideas - things we can do to stop this. Draco Malfoy and
      Alastor Moody will join you when they arrive."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione wheeled her broom around and pointed at the horde
      below. "Thousands of people have already died, including dozens of
      our own. But what finally worked was a physical barrier. Use that.
      Hold them off, stay on the defensive. The Muggle news is full of
      these disappearances - we don't know how many we're facing. So your
      job is just to hold back the tide and keep the school safe. If you
      have to, retreat inside. Stay alive."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She gestured at the Returned, and they began mounting
      brooms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville Longbottom called out to her as they rose. "And you…
      you're going after the source?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," she said. "Stay alive."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then she was flying, the Returned by her side.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
