<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>46. Significant Digits pt2 - Significant Digits Chapter 31: Harry and the Centaurs Argue Philosophy, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="46. Significant Digits pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s3" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 31: Harry and the Centaurs Argue Philosophy</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Salor Sprig, The Forbidden Forest, Scotland</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">September 10th, 1995</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Four years before the present</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">When a centaur is young, he immerses himself in knowledge and
      study. The centaurs have an ancient culture, unified between the
      world's seven great herds and stretching back in an unbroken chain
      into the distant past. It has survived to this day only because it
      is a combination of one rigid precept and a yielding openness to
      new ideas. There is no debate over the Unforked Path - but that is
      the <em class="calibre7">only</em> thing not open to discussion. Everything else -
      life and death and everything in between - is open to dispute and
      change.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Unforked Path includes a strong education in all the
      gathered wisdom of centaurs from the ages, gleaned from the stars
      and the wizards and the Muggles, but each centaur eventually tends
      to find a framework that suits them best. For practical purposes,
      in fact, each herd is often said to be divided into different
      <em class="calibre7">naʼniłkaadí</em>. This Muggle word, which has been appropriated
      and exported to centaurs all over the world, actually means "herd"
      as well, confusingly enough. The centaurs use it to describe
      particular schools of thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Kachina herd, now gone, popularized the term when they first
      struggled to articulate what they considered wholesale errors in
      the fundamental worldview of their Muggle enemies, the Navajo. But
      that is a sad tale for another time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The young Harry Potter-Evans-Verres, only a few years into his
      power and stinging from the fresh defeat of the International
      Statute for Health and Life on the floor of the Confederation, has
      come to visit the Salor Sprig in the Forbidden Forest. He has an
      important request.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I need help," said Harry. The teenager had shaggy hair that he
      kept pushed to the side, and green eyes that were attentive and
      thoughtful, lingering on details. Their contemplative care
      reflected the rapid workings of the mind behind them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are unfair," said Roonwit. "You speak within a context
      which is extremely vast, old, firmly established, rooted in a
      network of conventions - a clear statement that places demands on
      us by virtue of that context. To speak of 'need' and 'help' - we
      cannot separate such things from their primal origin, and it is
      unfair to rely on that privileging - on that binary. It makes
      demands on us separate from the merits of your arguments, by using
      language with deep implications from the usual context for those
      spoken words."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Roonwit was a young centaur, and accounted small among his kind,
      yet he towered over Harry and every emphatic thump of his hoof
      reminded the wizard of the pure physical power of the creature. It
      was an uncomfortable reminder of a past tragedy - a tragedy he'd
      remedied, to be sure, but one with a lingering sting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Language has context like everything has context," Harry
      replied, after taking a moment to parse the complicated accusation.
      "I think trying to avoid a direct request would be a mistake, and
      only further rely on that unavoidable 'primal' context." He thought
      for a moment longer. "It's an appropriate context, anyway - we
      <em class="calibre7">are</em> talking about life and death."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I recognize some of this language… this is Muggle
      philosophy.</em> Harry glanced at the bark shacks that were set up
      in the clearing - the only things here, in fact, beyond the sacred
      sapling in the center. <em class="calibre7">Where do they get Muggle books? Do they
      have some sort of magic or artifacts that enable them to disguise
      themselves, or do they have intermediaries?</em> This must be known
      to someone in Magical Creatures, but Harry hadn't known to ask.
      He'd have to find out. He wished he could spend the time to learn
      those things for himself, but just this single meeting had been
      difficult. To make it happen, he'd needed to rely on some of the
      contacts Dumbledore had left him, as well as an outstanding blood
      debt. He was fascinated: they seemed like an entire civilization of
      philosophers. On the other hand, this conversation was proving that
      some strands of thought were a trifle too dense for pleasurable
      discourse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Roonwit holds you to an account that is perhaps overstated in
      terms of intention, but your intentions are irrelevant. State your
      needs and ply your arguments, and let us make our choices," rumbled
      Aosta. The dark bay's skin color was almost the same as her coat,
      which made her unusually unified in a crowd of centaurs (who were
      usually two-toned). It suited the elder's temperament, which was
      singularly calm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Glenstorm, standing next to Aosta, nodded his agreement. He had
      his worry beads in one hand, and had been idly rubbing them with a
      broad thumb since the beginning of the conversation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My needs…" Harry rubbed his forehead in frustration, then
      remembered himself. He cleared his throat. "I need your assistance
      in locating some items of power that are hidden from all scrying or
      location, but not - I think - from divination and the implications
      of prophecy. It's the only way to keep the Dark Lord Voldemort
      imprisoned, and the world safe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When something has an origin, its destruction is ordained at
      that moment, wizardling," said Glenstorm. "Even if the stars did
      not promise a coming recompense when the debt of creation is
      fulfilled, this would be true. In the primal chaos, infinite worlds
      have been created and destroyed. So it will continue to be. But you
      should know better than to come before us in such a way: you are
      here only on the sufferance of Firenze and in acknowledgement of
      his own debt... to you. Otherwise, we could not ignore that you are
      the one who will bring this about. The stars scream at the future,
      and no centaur can ignore it." The centaur's voice was mild, but
      there were brittle depths beneath it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Roonwit, glancing over at the two elders, and then
      back at Harry, nodding. "We cannot deny you a hearing, not after
      learning of that shame or of your own nobility. But destruction is
      not an exterior force. The ending of a system predicated on
      inexactness, as with our world where idea and reality are eternally
      at odds, necessitates that destruction lies in an eccentric center
      of all things, in a corner whose eccentricity assures the solid
      concentration of the system, participating in the construction of
      what it, at the same time, threatens to deconstruct." The centaur's
      tail flicked back and forth, thoughtfully. He added, almost as an
      afterthought, "One might then be inclined to reach this conclusion:
      deconstruction is not an operation that supervenes afterwards, from
      the outside, one fine day. It is always already at work in a
      thing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Muggles have discovered a similar sort of idea… a rule that
      nature seems to follow, called the Second Law of Thermodynamics,"
      said Harry. "It states that any closed system tends towards chaos,
      eventually. But," and here he held up a finger, "outside influence
      can sustain it. Consider yourselves that outside influence, and
      sustain the world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry felt a moment's unsettledness for abusing a scientific
      principle so badly as to twist it into metaphor. It made him feel
      like he needed a bath. <em class="calibre7">But this isn't real discussion of
      reality… this is argument by analogy and rhetoric, and we're all
      secretly agreed on that. Otherwise we'd be discussing facts, not…
      whatever you'd call this. Framing, I suppose. I think I can engage
      on these terms.</em> He took a moment to consider if that was a
      Voldemort thought, but decided it wasn't. They set the terms of
      debate, after all, so it was no evil to abide by them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Aosta shook her head. Her hair was in a beautiful, long ponytail
      tied back with jute twine, strikingly similar (certainly
      intentionally so?) to her tail. Harry kept his eyes on it and on
      her face, which was difficult - considering her height and the fact
      that centaurs go unclothed. "We are not blind to the world, and it
      is plain enough that there is suffering everywhere. We could not
      act to bring about that final chaos, especially not if it would
      yield a void for a time. The lack of pain is preferable."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Utilitarianism, sort of? Some sort of consequentialism,
      anyway.</em> Harry felt like he had been dropped unprepared into a
      pit of rabid Philosophy 101 undergrads. <em class="calibre7">Okay, so how do I prove
      that there is more pleasure than pain in the world, making saving
      it a net good and ethical imperative? Will they accept
      statistics?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It would not even be the worst of fates," agreed Roonwit. "The
      worst violence occurs when the <em class="calibre7">other,"</em> he said, leaning on
      the word, <em class="calibre7">"</em>to which one is related is completely
      appropriated to or completely in oneself. It is this complete
      exclusion that makes this violence the worst violence - there is no
      limit to it, since it makes reality and idea entirely subsumed in
      the other in sovereign unity."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can't mean that the world would be better destroyed. If you
      did, and also thought helping me might hurry up that end, well…
      then you'd be obligated to help me for that reason, instead," Harry
      said, adapting as best he could to the different strains of
      argument. No, it was more than that… the outright different strains
      of <em class="calibre7">language</em>. Different worldviews. They didn't agree with
      each other on fundamental principles - virtue ethics or
      consequentialism - so how could he convince them of anything?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I don't mean that," said Roonwit. "To take a direct hand in
      assisting you… we could not do that. But the shape of civil
      society, the shape of the law, is always rooted in violence. To
      help you would be to participate in that violence, or worse, be a
      motivating force behind it. It is bad enough that we inhabit the
      decision and its context. Neither do we oppose you, or endorse
      Firenze's error. We are obligated to assist or oppose you, but it
      is…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Undecidable?" Harry offered, hoping he was guessing wrong.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Roonwit, smiling. He clopped a hoof down,
      nodding.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Okay, time to try the other two. It's really more like
      trying to guess a code than making an argument.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Really, this was a good reminder of why policy debates in
      Parliament tended towards appeals to emotion, attacks on the
      messenger, and other fallacies.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Would you agree, then," he said to Glenstorm, "that the world
      is better off destroyed? And that a virtuous being is the sort who
      would let that happen?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There is no real destruction," replied the blue roan. His worry
      beads clicked in one hand as he lowered them to his side. "There
      are undoubtedly an infinite number of worlds, and we have a union
      with all of them. But I will not hide in the Athenian solution. No,
      it would not be a good thing, and the virtuous would oppose it. But
      we return to the same issue, of which you have argued both sides
      like a confused coiner: assisting you would hasten stardeath and
      world-end, not prevent it. Your kind has access to visions of the
      future, in your crude way - do not your own people tell you
      this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">No prophecies, not anymore.</em> Harry had entered the Hall
      of Prophecy, three years ago, only to find it ruined - a chaos of
      shattered crystal, splintered shelves, and a thick haze of
      magically-suspended dust. Dumbledore had been true to his word, and
      at some unknown point he had eradicated the facility... and had
      worked to hide that fact, ever since. One of the greatest works of
      magic in the world had been undone, and the prophecies of Britain
      could no longer be hoarded and studied. It had been one of the
      powers that made Britain dominant in the magical world for
      centuries, for no other nation had its like. Its loss was a
      national tragedy. Only the old works survived, locked in their
      special vault of obdurate slade from the Urist Quarry in Hungary:
      the hundred-odd prophecies that had been individually preserved by
      independent means. Most of them were shockingly ancient, said to
      date back before Merlin's era, but there were also some dozens of
      more modern imported prophecies, and a few British ones that had
      been doubly preserved, for whatever reason. <em class="calibre7">Scorpion and
      archer, locked beyond return...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In a way. But that makes it all the more important that the
      magical items I need be found, so that the 'world-end' can be of a
      qualitatively different sort," said Harry. "The world might end in
      many ways… one of them is by growing into something bigger and
      better."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There is something of everything in everything else, and so
      there is never any motion, and never any change," said Glenstorm,
      shaking his head. "Withall, a good creature must prevent suffering…
      but it is wisdom to remember that failure is no one's fault.
      Indeed, in the event that failure is certain - and the stars speak
      only of what <em class="calibre7">will</em> happen, and give no conditions - a good
      creature must vouchsafe his own virtue. Firenze has rightly said
      that we cannot interfere with the philosopher-kings of wizardkind
      or else it will sully our own hooves." The centaur paused, shaking
      his head, and added, "Although he is late-come to this advice, as
      you know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I don't even know whether or not that's ingratitude. "He's a
      Platonic-style dictator I failed to murder and who brought me back
      to life with a fantastic cover story and who plans to defeat war,
      pain, and death, so maybe let's not get in his way… but definitely
      don't help him or anything."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced at Aosta and Roonwit, to see if they agreed. If
      they had a common position in this outcome of their independent
      strains of reasoning - that non-interference was ethically
      necessary to keep their hands clean from an inevitable evil - then
      he could stop talking in circles and tackle that single idea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I agree with Elder Glenstorm," said Roonwit. "But I think that
      we should not fool ourselves, Elder, into thinking that the
      decision not to interfere is not itself a form of interference. It
      will send signals, and it will cause consequences. We make the
      decision within the structures of society - world society, not
      wizarding - that we are forced to inhabit. We must do so, or else
      any decision is not possible or effective, nor can they take
      accurate aim, except by inhabiting those structures. Inhabiting
      them in a <em class="calibre7">certain way</em>, an aware way. We strive for
      goodness by stepping back, but the very act of deciding makes us
      involved… there is an eternal gap that follows us. The important
      thing is to know. One always inhabits, and all the more when one
      does not suspect it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Aosta began to look mildly impatient by the end of this
      diatribe, but she was certainly used to it, and neither elder
      centaur looked inclined to interrupt their younger kinsman. Debate
      is sacred. Once he finished, though, she gave her own perspective
      with more practiced concision, restraining her kind's natural
      garrulousness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The end of this world is certain, as Glenstorm says," she said.
      "We have good evidence for this. I am unconvinced whether or not
      this is a good thing, or whether there can be a qualitative
      difference in that end, as you say, wizardling. I do not know about
      'undecidable,' but I know that there is no compelling reason to
      dedicate effort to the cause if it would reduce our appreciation of
      the time we have left."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry felt like his brain was growing physically warm with
      exertion as he tried to track three independently-derived
      philosophical traditions and answer all of their objections
      simultaneously. If he had still been articulating interior voices,
      this would be the moment when he promised his brain a cookie.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, if I understand correctly, then," he finally said, rubbing
      his forehead again. "You, sir," he indicated Glenstorm with a
      gesture, "think that assisting me is wrong because the action
      wouldn't be the sort of thing a good person does. But may I suggest
      that this is simply displacing the real moment of assessment -
      restating it? The virtuous person is someone who does virtuous
      things. Choosing not to do something that will improve the world -
      make people happier, healthier, wealthier - is not the act of a
      virtuous person."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Glenstorm shook his head. "Except to the extent that the stars
      speak, we can't know the future. That means that virtue must come
      from within, not from what occurs. If I were to rescue a child from
      the tar, and then that child went on to commit murder later that
      day, I have still found virtue."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So then the pivotal question is whether or not your own
      knowledge would lead you to believe that it is a virtuous action?"
      The centaur nodded, looking amused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hold that thought," said Harry. He turned to Roonwit. "And you,
      sir. You believe that we can evaluate the world and decide on the
      ethical course of action, but that every action incorporates and
      stains us with the guilt of participating in systemic injustice.
      You think it's undecidable - but you do make ethical decisions on
      some things, and the way you do that is by determining the most
      ethical course, yes? If you agree that we're always inhabiting the
      inherent injustice of the world, even if we do nothing, then you
      want to either help or not, <em class="calibre7">depending on</em> whether it's the
      course that will improve the world? Do you agree?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Roonwit said, "Yes, that is so, although I would challenge your
      use of this broad binary of 'agree.' It's a corruption of thought
      by language, since it commits one to the entire endorsement of an
      idea and eliminates all shade of question or doubt or
      uncertainty."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But there's no way around the inherent injustice of language,
      including its privileged binaries, so at least we're aware of it,"
      said Harry, hurriedly. "Okay, so in both cases we're at the
      question of fact."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He turned to Aosta. "You, madame. You-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The question of fact is the important thing," she said,
      interrupting him with a smile. "Does the action improve the
      world... that is the question."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">May you live to be queen and rule them all</em>, Harry
      thought, gratefully. He smiled back at her. <em class="calibre7">Well, not queen…
      whatever the equivalent would be.</em> As he recalled, they'd
      adopted the Russian model of regional representatives with a
      figurehead military leader. Hopefully Aosta's</p>
      <p class="calibre6">naʼniłkaadí would gain disproportionate influence... that would
      be for the best. He wondered if there was any way he could help
      that happen. He made a mental note for later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then we all agree," Harry said, stepping back a pace so that he
      didn't have to crane his neck so far, "that we're at the question
      of whether or not helping me locate these items of power is the
      most important thing. If it will improve the world, then you and
      yours should do it. Otherwise, you should not." He had to resist
      the urge to be rigorous and suggest they define "improve" and
      "important" and the other vague words they were using. That
      couldn't conceivably help him make his case.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The three centaurs glanced at each other, and then all three
      nodded in agreement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay," said Harry. He smiled. "Then I will explain. There are
      three things I need to locate. The Cup of Midnight, which can bind
      anyone who does not give the Cup their name, and which according to
      legend may actually already be broken. I need to confirm that or
      not. And the Cup of Dawn, also known as the Goblet of Fire, which
      can bind anyone whose name is cast within it. And the Resurrection
      Stone, one of the Deathly Hollows of the three Peverell brothers,
      which can transcend any barrier. The Goblet and the Stone were both
      in the possession of Lord Voldemort, and we haven't been able to
      locate them. They are very powerful, and too important to be left
      to chance."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We know of all three devices," said Aosta. She glanced at
      Roonwit for confirmation, and the centaur nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will tell you my intentions, and we will settle the question
      of fact, if you are willing?" Harry said. He marshalled his
      knowledge and his arguments and his wits. <em class="calibre7">A lot is riding on
      this. If I fail, I'll have to approach someone like Aosta more
      privately. And if that fails… well, I'll just have to try something
      else.</em> The thought of compulsion occurred to him, but he
      quashed it. That was a dark road to go down, and he wouldn't begin
      planning last resorts until he'd run out of every other idea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Glenstorm's worry beads clicked. Aosta folded her arms in front
      of her chest, stern but receptive. And Roonwit listened
      eagerly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, then," Harry said. He cleared his throat, and checked the
      abacus in his pocket. Seventeen of the beads had moved, one per
      minute of this conversation. The hidden aurors ensuring the secrecy
      and privacy of this conversation were still on task and unmolested.
      "Here is my plan - or as much as I can tell you about it,
      anyway."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
