<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>46. Significant Digits pt2 - Significant Digits Chapter 37: Levels, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="46. Significant Digits pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s9" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 37: Levels</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">At some point in the past few minutes, all of Hermione's
      confusion and anxiety and sadness had been swept away, leaving only
      the cold and clear consideration of tactics.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I need to stop Bellatrix, protect Harry and Draco and a
      roomful of dignitaries to preserve this new peace, and get the
      Resurrection Stone. And to save any aurors that I can still
      rescue.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I can directly command the aurors and my Returned, and
      probably also get the Boston Brahmins and the Siberian Rakshasa, if
      necessary.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Bellatrix is, without question, here for Voldemort. Harry
      said that she didn't seem capable of caring about anything else -
      she might have plans and secondary goals on his behalf, but her
      purpose is clear. She'll want Harry, since she'll rightly assume he
      knows where Voldemort is kept. She is one of the most fearsome
      witches of her generation and has access to spells and power we
      don't have, but she also spent years in Azkaban and has been forced
      to resort to a single desperate attack with a massed army of
      psychotic, enslaved werewolves.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">No, that doesn't make any sense. She wouldn't risk herself
      in an attack like this without some sort of trump card - some way
      to defeat all the massed forces she knows are present here. Some
      way to defeat me. That would mean risking Voldemort's last chance
      at freedom, and if she were unhinged enough to do that, then she
      wouldn't have waited this long and prepared this much. She has some
      additional force or power at her command… even beyond
      Fiendfyre.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Plans danced in her mind, considered in their permutations and
      in their costs. No time for optimal planning or more than one level
      of preparation - they needed direct response, and they needed it
      before Bellatrix managed to pass through the trapped south
      corridor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Massed attack with Returned… no, narrow constraints make us
      all vulnerable to any unknown threat or renewed werewolf attack.
      Lure into open room and trap… no, would sacrifice too much ground
      and put her too close to assets.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Direct attack, flank her and cut off any reinforcements, set
      up a second layer of defense and trust to Harry for a third layer.
      She'll go for him - assume he knows where Voldemort is
      kept.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">There, yes, that was it. No time to second-guess. She
      committed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Here's the plan," said Hermione, throwing the Cloak of
      Invisibility to Hyori. "Take this and go around the back, to the
      rear of the clinic. Have them let you through - you know the
      sequences? - so you can flank Bellatrix. Stop at the Establishment
      on the way and tell Simon and Esther to come here to guard 'Harry.'
      The Americans and Siberians should stay with the real Harry and
      prepare to swarm Bellatrix if she makes it that far… he should make
      a false Voldemort, just in case." Her last words were as much for
      the benefit of Harry's bubbler in the corner as Hyori.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hyori caught the Cloak and sprinted from the room without
      another word, her lips pursed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks, who was lifting the meeting room table onto its side for
      a barricade, glanced over at Hermione. He had already fashioned
      himself into a perfect simulacrum of Harry, and had torn the collar
      of his robes to make them look more masculine. "And you're going to
      go try to duel my dear Auntie Black, are you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, in order to protect your dear cousin Draco and everyone
      else," said Hermione, working her fingers in her gauntlet and
      heading to the other door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm Harry's distant cousin, too, actually, along with half that
      room of muckity-mucks," said Tonks, cheerily. "All our families
      have been snogging each other for a thousand years."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A proud legacy," said Hermione, smiling. She drew her wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't die, mudblood!" called Tonks, after her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You either, blood traitor," replied Hermione, and then she was
      through the door and heading to the south corridor, breaking into a
      run.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She could already see the auror as she rounded into the
      corridor. He was standing at the corner with the south corridor,
      putting up runes. Probably runes of balance, out of the hopes that
      it would damage Bellatrix's Fiendfyre chimera. He didn't run.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">A brave man</em>, she thought, and pushed into a flat-out
      run, arms pumping. <em class="calibre7">Balance probably won't be enough to save his
      own life, but it's most likely to slow her down. He's willing to
      die to buy us a few more minutes.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She raised her wand, holding it level as she ran, and then
      flicked it twice to the left - "<em class="calibre7">Lagann!" -</em> and then with a
      sharp rising jerk towards herself - "<em class="calibre7">Impedimenta!</em>" The
      auror's location wards broke under her first spell, and he was
      jerked off his feet with the second, sliding towards her, legs
      flailing. She leapt as she reached him, one powerful stride
      carrying her ten meters forward and over him. Hermione had the
      briefest of glimpses of a look of absolute awe on the man's face -
      Auror Salamander, she recognized him - and then he was past her.
      She lowered her body into a lunge and turned herself, and her feet
      skidded over the stone. She came to a neat stop at the corner at
      the end of the south corridor, over the body of the fallen auror.
      Everything was red and scarlet. There was Fiendfyre.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And there was Bellatrix Black.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was hard to see her past the chimera, which was lazily
      pushing at the stone of the floor, kneading it with lion's paws as
      it vitrified and bubbled. But she was there. A tall woman with a
      strong jawline, she was dressed in black leather leggings and a
      ragged gray tunic, belted at the waist. One of her arms was black
      and misshapen: an enchanted prosthetic. Bellatrix had a wide smile
      on her face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ten green bottles, standing on the wall," she sang, loudly. Her
      voice was high-pitched - too young for her age. She tilted her
      head, and stared at Hermione down the length of the corridor.
      Dozens of carbon nanotubes blocked her path… but they wouldn't
      withstand an instant of Fiendfyre.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bellatrix Black!" shouted Hermione. "My name is Hermione
      Granger! I know you're here for your Dark Lord… let us give you
      what you want!" She glanced down at the body of the auror, and
      leaned over to grasp it with one hand and give it a powerful shove
      away from her. The fallen auror tumbled end-over-end towards the
      meeting room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ten green bottles, standing on the wall," repeated the other
      witch, and bubbled with a moment of insane laughter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can you hear me? Can you understand me?" shouted Hermione. She
      tensed her fingers on her wand, and flexed her other hand within
      her gauntlet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And if one green bottle should happen to fall..." said
      Bellatrix, and raised her free hand. She gestured, and her
      Fiendfyre chimera jerked upright and lurched forward. The scabrous
      black lines channeling through the thick flames pulsed, and the
      broken-necked goat's head riding atop the nightmare's back lolled
      to one side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bellatrix!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There'll be nine green bottles, standing on the wall!" shrieked
      Bellatrix and waved her hand again. The chimera leapt into the air
      and blazed forward, flaring bright with hellish flame. It surged
      towards Hermione, and it was so hot that it was destroying the
      nanotubes before it even touched them - she could hear the rapid
      staccato clicks as they broke. The chimera flared and crackled and
      melted the surface of the corridor into glass as it surged towards
      Hermione, and nothing stood in its way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And she had a moment, then, to remember.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Pain. Heat. A sweet stink in her nostrils. Her hair
      crackling as it burned. No knowledge of her body, which had gone
      far away - only pain and panic. Somehow she'd lost track of
      herself, even though she knew on some level that she was thrashing
      and screaming and there was no Granville oh god Granville was gone.
      But no, that level of knowledge was going away. The world was going
      away. She was fading burning dying. There was one level, and it was
      blackness.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione remembered, and as time separated into a series of
      instants, she felt her stomach clench with fear. She felt herself
      ready to scream. She felt the blackness, waiting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But in the next instant all of that was gone, and she was
      brandishing her wand and shouting her defiance, stamping her heels
      into the stone beneath her until it cracked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And in the next instant Hermione could feel the <em class="calibre7">smile on her
      face</em> as the chimera flared even brighter - red and crimson,
      everything was dyed red and crimson - and she heard the loud crack
      of seals coming loose.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then the chimera was jerked violently to the right and down,
      spinning helplessly. Thousands of pounds of air pulled it along,
      sucking with hurricane force at its fire-formed body. Its
      snake-tail whipped around and hissed angrily, only to be caught up
      by a different force and wrenched in another direction. Hermione's
      shout was lost in the roar of wind, and she felt herself lifting
      off of her feet. She buried her gauntlet into the wall with an
      extravagant punch, pushed down on her embedded heels, and held her
      ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Buried in the walls were forty extended spaces, linked into a
      system. They were as large as possible, and they were filled with
      nothing… not even air.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The chimera had time enough to buck twice in the air, its lion's
      body flexing, and then it splashed into the wall of the corridor
      with a wash of mad-red flame. Three of the vacuum chambers, exposed
      by the Fiendfyre flames that had melted into the walls, sucked air
      by the gallons. They exerted over a ton of force on the corridor,
      expressed in a hurricane of sucking wind. The chimera shockingly
      managed to hold itself away from them for a moment, straining to
      pull away with whatever magical force that gave it motion. Hermione
      could see the lion of black and red flame roar without sound... and
      then the chimera was torn apart, rent into scraps of scarlet and
      ribbons of red, spread out and scattered and dissipated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">According to legend, Fiendfyre could not be stopped or killed or
      contained. The ritual was the incarnation of a creature of flame
      and hatred, and nothing could stem its destruction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That hypothesis, however, hadn't held up under testing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wind died in a few moments, as ball valves were sucked into
      place. Hermione pulled her gauntlet free from the wall with a
      rattle of stones, and glanced to her right. Auror Salamander had
      been pulled back towards her, but was already back on his feet,
      running towards the meeting room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix was also standing up. Behind her, four long gouges in
      the stone showed where she'd held on - she must have dug her own
      new hand into the wall. Something of which to take note: that
      device probably had other powers, as well, if she'd gotten it from
      some hidden hoard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Stupefy</em>," cast Hermione, and threw herself low and to
      the side. Bellatrix's own silent curse came in reply a moment
      later, a rippling wave of purple crystal that swept over Hermione's
      head. Hermione kicked herself back to her feet with a nimble
      motion, whipping her wand around and raising a rapid and disposable
      Roger's Shield. The multicoloured disc of light unfolded from a
      single bright line just in time to intercept a second wave of
      crystal shards. Translucent pieces of the shattered projectiles
      scattered everywhere, and Hermione could feel them patter into her
      hair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Classically trained duelist, but acts without the rhythm of
      convention. Voldemort's work. She'll have something up her sleeve
      that I can't counter - some wardbreaker or elemental conjuration.
      And even beyond that… she's just better than me. I need to get in
      close and press my own advantages.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">A thick wash of fog rolled forward from Bellatrix, but Hermione
      interrupted with a rapid-fire burst of minor hexes, fired from
      around the edge of her shield. <em class="calibre7">That fog's slow and flashy,
      that's a trap</em>. Without time for another thought, Hermione
      cooled her mind into a receptive calm and extended her will,
      thrusting forth the thought of blue November and the smell of
      burning leaves. A ward of prisms burst into existence, blocking the
      corridor from top to bottom, and Bellatrix's hidden curse, the Slow
      Blade of Unusually Specific Destruction, which had been cruising
      sedately but invisibly forward, burst like a soap bubble.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I need to-</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">But the thought was interrupted as both the prisms and Roger's
      Shield exploded towards her, shattered by a blazing beam of
      white-hot light. Hermione felt a hot wave of pain as the energy
      clipped her right shoulder, and then she was tumbling backwards
      from the impact. <em class="calibre7">So fast,</em> she thought, but there was
      <em class="calibre7">no time</em> and she rolled to one side and thrust out her
      hand, pushing herself upright with a powerful motion just in time
      to avoid a sticky gobbet of grey liquid, which landed in a pulsing
      sphere on the stone and exploded into a fine mist.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione recognized the spell and held her breath, but there was
      just no time to prepare a counter-attack. She could already see a
      white glow building in intensity at the other end of the corridor,
      and could only swirl her wand and raise it to Vom Tag, pulling an
      eruption of grey stone up from the floor. The beam of light broke
      against the stone with a sound like shattering glass - <em class="calibre7">the
      pattern, I see it</em> - and Hermione threw herself to the side
      again, smashing into the side of the corridor, as a Killing Curse
      passed through the space in which she'd just been standing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Hermione seized her advantage while she could. She smashed
      her clenched and gauntleted hand into her shield of stone, bursting
      through it with a golden blow, and barked, "AquaCem!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sticky foam rushed out of the gauntlet, seething and swelling as
      it flooded down the hallway towards Bellatrix. Hermione couldn't
      see it, thanks to the stone that protected her from any backflow,
      but she could hear the sizzle of spells, muffled by a corridor
      crammed with foam.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She had a moment. Bellatrix would be delayed for at least a
      short time. Time enough for Hermione to prepare, and time enough
      for Hyori to get in position. She didn't dare hope that she'd just
      ended the fight; even if she'd managed to surprise the other witch
      and actually catch her in the foam, there were any number of ways
      Bellatrix could escape.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Ventus</em>," she cast, clearing away the mist. She took a
      deep breath, and considered her options.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I should have kept the Cloak, and had Hyori take Simon and
      Esther with her</em>, she thought. She'd been wary of sending
      anyone without perfect concealment around to the north corridor,
      since more werewolves might have been on the way. <em class="calibre7">But I made my
      decision, and it's done. Hindsight bias be damned.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">So how do I get in close?</em> She took a quick inventory,
      trying to think of some way to get to the end of the corridor
      before Bellatrix could react. Her broom was too slow and
      vulnerable. Explosives? No, that was silly and impractical, even if
      it was theoretically possible. She couldn't bubble and have the
      Anti-Disapparation wards taken down (even if that was something
      they could easily so), for obvious reasons.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The foam hissed, and some of its stiff grey bubbles poured
      through the hole she'd left in the stone shield in front of her.
      Hermione could hear a crackling sound, growing louder by the
      second. She had another foam charger, should she…</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Oh. Wait, no, that's crazy.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">But she couldn't think of <em class="calibre7">why</em> it wouldn't work, and she
      didn't have anything better, and this needed to end before more
      people got hurt. So there it was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione turned and smashed her gauntleted fist into the stone
      behind her. She twisted her hand violently, and a small shower of
      broken rock came loose. Pulling the gauntlet free from her hand,
      she pushed hard on the underside of one knuckle. The spent foam
      charger came loose, and she pocketed it. She replaced it with a
      spare wind charger from her pouch, locking it into place next to an
      identical one. Then she shoved the gauntlet into the hole she'd
      made, backwards. It faced the opposite end of the south corridor,
      where Bellatrix was still dealing with the foam.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sound of crackling had very nearly reached Hermione, and the
      air was almost unbreathable with an acrid smell. There was some
      sort of chemical reaction - had Bellatrix set the foam on fire,
      somehow?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The answer came in seconds, as Hermione's shield of stone began
      to sizzle. The top melted at the same time that holes appeared
      along the surface, and Hermione could see the thick yellow mist
      that was eating away at the rock. She'd changed the foam into some
      sort of airborne acid.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">How oddly helpful.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Bullesco</em>," cast Hermione, and the Bubblehead Charm
      swelled up and around her head. <em class="calibre7">Here goes… well,
      something.</em> She put her back to the gauntlet, facing the end of
      the corridor and Bellatrix squarely. Then she raised her
      wand."<em class="calibre7">Ventus! Ventus!</em> Kavo!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two gusts of wind swept the airborne acid back at Bellatrix. It
      was the obvious counter-attack, meaning it was an obvious trap -
      the dull yellow glow of two Bertram Bolts whipped from out of the
      swirling acid, which had obscured their passage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But Hermione had also triggered the two wind chargers in her
      gauntlet. Twin gales of compressed air, released in a moment from
      their extended space, swept her up and down the corridor, over the
      curses, bouncing painfully against the ceiling and turning in an
      awkward tumble. She lost sight of Bellatrix as she spun, but saw
      the yellow fog of acid vanish in a glimmer of light - the
      Obliteration Charm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione hit Bellatrix's shields with one tense leg. Her ankle
      twisted to the side violently with the impact and she crashed to
      the ground, arms akimbo and head cracking into the stone sharply.
      Bellatrix's eyes were wide with shock and anger and crazed delight.
      Her false arm held her wand delicately between three fingers, still
      pointed forward. She brought it down to point at Hermione.
      "<em class="calibre7">Avada-"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione lashed out with her uninjured foot, sharply striking
      Bellatrix's wooden arm. The blow would have broken any human arm,
      but the smooth-grained wooden arm - oddly delicate in appearance,
      all shifting layers, an intricate mesh of components - was only
      knocked away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Silly stupid scum," hissed Bellatrix, hopping backwards and out
      of reach.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione could see the other witch's eyes clearly, in this
      instant as she scrambled to her feet. They had a burning intensity
      to them: the fever brightness of madness. But she saw more than
      that, and her heart ached as she recognized that there was a
      hollowness behind her gaze. A hungry distance that lay somewhere in
      those crazed dark eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">You never Returned, even when you left Azkaban. You carry
      your Azkaban with you.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a moment of recognition. A moment of hesitation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix's wand danced in a complicated swivel and bob, and she
      tapped it on her chest. "<em class="calibre7">Amandher Penkue!"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The air shuddered with a pulse of magical power. Hermione felt
      it in her bones. One of Bellatrix's eyes popped wetly, exploding
      from the socket into a small burst of black dust.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">A sacrifice. An old spell.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Here I am," said Bellatrix Black.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Here I am here I am," said a second Bellatrix Black.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Here I am here I am here I am," said a third Bellatrix
      Black.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pip could barely stand. He was very near <em class="calibre7">toverislot</em>,
      and he could feel his will ache with overexertion. He would pass
      out soon - should have passed out a while ago, actually.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Despite knowing this, somewhere in the back of his mind, he
      didn't stop. He couldn't stop. Pip crushed the crowded hall with
      attack after attack. His back against the clinic door, he fought
      screaming madmen. He broke their bodies and rent their flesh,
      casting spell after spell, chaining together one effect after
      another. He fought without stopping, without resting, without
      thinking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pip fought until there was no one left to fight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The hallway was a ruin of gore and wrecked humanity. Broken or
      abandoned wands were strewn in and around the smoking remains of
      their owners. Someone was wetly wheezing, trying to curse or scream
      even as they drowned in their own blood. Pip leaned on the wall,
      his vision swimming - but wand at the ready.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The door to the clinic clanked loudly, and swung open behind
      him. Pip turned, wearily, to see that witch from the Returned - the
      angry-looking Korean one. Her wand was out, but she appeared to be
      missing her other arm. <em class="calibre7">No, an invisibility cloak. Bugger,
      I</em> am <em class="calibre7">tired.</em> She stared at him for a moment, narrowing
      her eyes with scrutiny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hullo," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come," she replied, handing him a phial. The label read,
      "PEPPER-UP POTION." Then she pushed past him, breaking into a run,
      throwing the cloak over her shoulders.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I shouldn't drink this</em>, Pip thought, as he swallowed
      the potion. He felt it burn down into his stomach, boiling in his
      guts. Thick heat spread throughout his limbs, and his ears
      burned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I'm too tired… I'll just sit down here and take a rest.
      Forget the lockdown protocol, let the clinic aurors go fight,</em>
      Pip thought, as he raced down the corridor after the vanishing
      Returned, slipping on blood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Mum would want me to let someone else take their turn…
      bollocks to this, I'm going to go have a nap</em>, Pip thought, as
      he began to raise his wards for what felt like the thousandth time.
      New strength was rising in him, but it felt artificial and thin -
      the false energy of a strong cup of tea in the wee hours of a long
      watch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He could hear Bellatrix's voice as they neared the junction of
      the north and south corridors. She was chanting something, but
      there was some strange effect - it sounded like a chorus. Like
      there were-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Three of the bloody crazy bints. All fighting Hermione
      Granger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was impossible. Everything about it was impossible. It was
      impossible that Bellatrix had duplicated herself somehow - it
      wasn't even an illusion, they were all doing different things! -
      since there had never been any magic like that, not that he'd ever
      heard. It was impossible that anyone could cast so many curses - so
      many Killing Curses! - with such speed and viciousness. He'd heard
      stories, but to see it…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And it was impossible that the Goddess was <em class="calibre7">still
      alive.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">But she was. She ducked and threw up shields and cast curses and
      lashed out with her fists and feet. Killing Curses streamed past
      her, but she slipped gracefully among them, pausing only to rip
      away wards from her foes or attack them. She moved faster than
      anyone could move. She was dancing between the raindrops.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Lagann</em>! <em class="calibre7">Stupefy!</em>" Pip shouted, and
      immediately wished he'd kept quiet. His spell smashed through the
      shields of one of the Bellatrixen, but his stunner hit her wooden
      right arm and had no effect.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh hell," Pip said, as that Bellatrix (Bellatrix #1? Bellatrix
      A? Bellatrix holyhellrunaway?) rounded on him, leaving her doubles
      to fight the Goddess. Like the other two, she was missing her right
      eye. A bloody socket wept crimson down her cheek.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Silly dolly," hissed Bellatrix A. "It's time to-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But her words were cut off suddenly, turning into a wet gurgle
      as a red slash appeared across her throat. Blood began to spurt
      from the wound, and Bellatrix A staggered backwards into the wall,
      clutching it with one hand as she tried to clamp her fingers over
      her throat with the other. Her wand dropped to the floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In unison, the two other Bellatrixes whirled. They spoke in one
      voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Avada Kedavra</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Both curses flashed through the air and vanished into
      nothingness. There was the sound of someone collapsing to the
      ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Stupefy!"</em> cast Pip again. The stunner missed, but it
      did force the two standing Bellatrixen to adapt and raise new
      shields, distracting them for a further precious instant. It gave
      the Goddess a moment to snatch a knife from a pouch at her waist.
      She renewed her attack, casting three Bertram Bolts in as many
      seconds and lunging at the nearest Bellatrix.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her target whirled to bring up her artificial arm and wand. The
      Bellatrix deflected the Bolts with an instantaneous Roger's Shield,
      and continued the motion to intercept the knife with the enchanted
      wood of her forearm. It was a marvel of combat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Something didn't go as the Bellatrix expected, though, since the
      knife punched right through the prosthetic. It was a small knife,
      and its silver tip only just breached the other side of the
      relic-arm, but it was something.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Lagann! Lagann! Lagann! Reducto! Reducto!"</em> Pip began
      casting, trying to capitalize on the momentum. He kept his distance
      and only tried to support the Goddess, because he could feel a vast
      lethargy welling up from his guts. The potion was wearing off. He
      didn't give up. He wouldn't give up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Thank you for saving the Goddess and the whole Tower,"
      breathed Cedric. He shook Pip's hand, and then held on. He didn't
      let go as he looked into Pip's eyes. "I… I don't know how to say
      this, but… I'd noticed you, before. When you were on duty. I
      noticed you in your auror's robes. Your eyes."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pip dodged to the side with a desperate effort, contorting his
      body to avoid three precise blasts of Hippo's Fire.
      "<em class="calibre7">Lagann!"</em> he cast. "<em class="calibre7">Depulso! Reducto! Glacius!</em>"
      He was slowing down, dimming, fading. Everything began to get
      darker, and it felt like he was fighting in knee-deep water. Water
      that was rapidly rising, and making him sluggish and dull. He
      pushed himself. He pushed himself beyond where he ever thought he
      could go.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">It felt odd to be sitting at the head table, next to
      Headmistress McGonagall. But they'd insisted. It was only proper
      for the new Head of Slytherin to take the place of honour. "I want
      you to know," said the Headmistress, with a softness in her
      Scottish voice that he'd never heard, "that Hogwarts owes you a
      debt it can never repay. The name of Slytherin has new meaning,
      thanks to you. Let them all be Silver Slytherins in your mold. Let
      them strive to live up to the name of Pirrip."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everything was slow. Too slow. A bolt of fire hit Pip in the
      leg. He felt the pain as though at a great distance. He couldn't
      bring up any more shields, couldn't manage any difficult curses. He
      cast stunners and disarms, and even that took so much effort that
      it felt like his soul was being scraped raw. "<em class="calibre7">Stupefy! Stupefy!
      Expelliarmus!</em>" Anything to make the Bellatrix react and fight
      him - to distract her - needed to distract her - needed to save the
      Goddess…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">I'm so proud of you, Philip. Your dad would be so proud of
      you."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then he felt a curse hit him in the stomach. Too slow. Couldn't
      avoid it. Didn't feel like anything, though. The world tilted and
      rocked as he fell, crumpling to the ground. Couldn't feel his legs.
      Couldn't feel bloody anything. Everything sideways. Everything
      dim.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pip could see the Bellatrix he'd been fighting turn around. She
      touched her wand to the one with the slashed throat. After a
      moment, the hand of the fallen Bellatrix twitched and clenched
      itself. It scrabbled around, looking for a missing wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Goddess was putting up layered shields, trying to outpace
      the other Bellatrix, whose prosthetic hand seemed to be moving more
      slowly. They were getting smaller - the whole fight was getting
      smaller. Everything was shrinking, as though he were being drawn
      back into a tunnel. A dark tunnel.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrixen A and B joined their sister. Dull shapes, moving far
      away. A thick fog. The Goddess was fighting. But it wasn't… wasn't
      working… she couldn't…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dimly, Pip watched as Bellatrix Black and her two duplicates
      cast the Killing Curse. They cast it in quick succession, and they
      cast it flawlessly. This time, Hermione Granger was too slow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One of the Killing Curses hit her. Colors were dim, and Pip's
      mind was fading, but still he saw the green bolt strike her in the
      chest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He saw the Goddess die.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two of the Bellatrixen sprang forward, down the corridor and out
      of his sight. Pip watched them go with the distant thought that
      this was important… that this mattered… but he couldn't quite…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Almost as an afterthought, the last Bellatrix turned to him. He
      watched, dully. He tried to keep his eyes open. He felt for his
      wand with numb fingers. He needed… he had to…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Avada Kedevra."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had done everything he could. He entered the Extension
      Establishment with his most commanding air and had informed
      everyone that there had been a security breach. The defence had
      been easy to organize. Draco was there to publicly and cordially
      avow that the Honourable and Independents had no hand in the
      attack, and that the same honour which compelled their defiance of
      tyranny would compel them to defend innocent lives. Harry suspected
      that, even if Draco hadn't been there, he would have met little
      opposition. This was his place of power and his fortress, and those
      in attendance respected such things.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Politics were still a necessity, though, and having Draco with
      him helped. The Slytherin was able to make awkward requests with
      such beautiful elegance that they seemed like compliments. Per
      Aavik-Söderlundh-Ellingsen and the other incompetents were ushered
      off to the far corners, where they wouldn't be in the way. The
      process was considerably eased when Harry sent the Brahmins - a
      grizzled, enormous pack of battle-hardened witches and wizards -
      next door, to fetch some of the Mobile Marys and other extended
      spaces. Fully half of the gathered crowd was dispersed among them.
      Everyone who would be a liability, or who declined to risk
      themselves, was put out of the way in that manner, and there was
      room to maneuver and plan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But then that was arranged, and he'd worked with Draco and
      Cedric to deploy the British aurors and the Brahmins and their
      Siberian counterparts and some of the Returned (Urg, Charlevoix,
      and Susie) in strategic positions, and everyone was weaving wards
      and shields that were (frankly) far better left to them. Harry
      stood where he was politely asked to stand by Buckeye Dave of the
      Brahmins.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And he had to watch the bubbler and wait.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks-as-Harry made her own preparations with Simon and Esther
      in the meeting room. They laid magical traps and wards and shields.
      They made plans. Harry watched and listened to them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He waited.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco stood nearby, talking quietly with his mother (who kept
      giving Harry hateful glares) and Gregory Goyle. Harry wished they
      could keep talking, openly, like before - even just about the
      situation, much less everything else that had happened over these
      past few years.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry thought about everything that could be lost today. He
      thought about Dumbledore's wise words about war and loss, seven
      years ago, in a room filled with monuments to the fallen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">I see that you still do not understand. I think you will
      not understand until the day that you - oh, Harry. So very long
      ago, when I was not much older than you are now, I learned the true
      face of violence, and its cost. To fill the air with deadly curses
      - for any reason - for any reason, Harry - it is an ill thing, and
      its nature is corrupted, as terrible as the darkest rituals.
      Violence, once begun, becomes like a Lethifold that strikes at any
      life near it. I... would spare you that lesson the way I learned
      it, Harry."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Would Harry learn that lesson today? Would he learn that there
      were never enough levels to a plan - never enough layers of
      deception or preparation that could save everyone?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd rejected that principle, then and every other time he
      thought about it. Dumbledore had shown him the costs of war, and
      had challenged him: did Harry really think he was smart enough -
      that <em class="calibre7">anyone</em> could be smart enough or prepared enough or
      powerful enough - to fight a war without loss?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore had tried to point out that violence was often
      unpredictable, and seldom neat. They spoke of history - Gandhi and
      Churchill and Grindelwald - and they spoke of slippery slopes. And
      still, all around them, had been the evidence of loss. Dumbledore
      had done everything he could to avoid war, and when it came, he had
      led the forces of goodness. He had been the most powerful wizard
      known to the world, and he had somehow discovered the Word of the
      First Enchanter and had listened to every prophecy held in Britain,
      and <em class="calibre7">still</em> he had suffered grievous losses in the wars
      against Grindelwald and Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do not accept your answer, Headmaster," Harry had said at the
      time. It had been a childish refusal to engage in an argument on
      its merits, really. "You are willing to accept balances of power
      where the bad guys end up winning. I am not," he'd said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Refusing to accept something does not change it. I wonder
      now if you are simply too young to understand this matter, Harry,
      despite your outward airs; only in children's fantasies can all
      battles be won, and not a single evil tolerated."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had hated the bullying at Hogwarts. He'd been willing to
      disrupt the school to stop it. If that had upset Lord Jugson, he'd
      been willing to arrange for Lord Jugson to be exiled. If that had
      upset Lord Malfoy and his whole Wizengamot contingent, he'd been
      willing to break Malfoy and every single one of them - or all of
      them at once, if need be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For the sake of ending bullying, Harry had been willing to
      conquer the world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Was that right?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry drew his wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It wasn't the Elder Wand. The Elder Wand was hidden in the
      Tower, guarded by a thousand traps. It would have been foolish to
      carry it: Harry was clever and creative, but no duelist. Any
      unguarded moment and he could be "defeated"... no, better to keep
      it safe and hidden until he had need of it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was Harry's wand. Eleven inches long. Holly. Phoenix
      core.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What would Fawkes say to him now?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Noise from the bubbler. Harry's attention snapped over to it.
      Charlevoix, standing to his left, stepped closer to watch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They could see three versions of Bellatrix Black entering the
      meeting room. There was fighting - hard to make out from the
      bubbler's limited vantage point. Esther was casting curses, and so
      was "Harry." Simon was already down. He was just visible at the
      bottom of the bubbler's view. He wasn't moving.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Flashes of light. Some sort of trap triggered, and the picture
      on the bubbler was whited-out. When the view returned, Esther and
      one of the Bellatrixen were both out of sight. Either they were out
      of range of the bubbler's vision, or… something else. He could hear
      a sharp intake of breath from Charlevoix.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But now it was Tonks against two Bellatrix Blacks, and no one
      could have won that battle. Harry cringed as the two attacking
      witches disarmed "Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One of the Bellatrixen moved, and her back blocked Harry's view
      of Tonks. The other one was pulling something from within her belt.
      They struggled with Tonks, who wouldn't cooperate, finally settling
      on <em class="calibre7">Incarcerous</em> to bind him. They forced him to open his
      mouth, poured something in. A potion. Veritaserum. A <em class="calibre7">lot</em>
      of Veritaserum, more than anyone could ever use on someone they
      wanted to keep alive and sane. Enough to wrest the truth from
      Mad-Eye Moody himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm Nymphadora Tonks, I'm not Harry Potter! He's oh Merlin no
      no no he's back through that door, in the Extension Establishment
      with everyone else no no no Merlin I'm so sorry Harry I'm so sorry
      Hermi-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Avada Kedavra</em>," said one of the two remaining
      Bellatrix Blacks. Harry closed his eyes, and felt bile rise in his
      throat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd taunted Dumbledore. Hurt him on purpose. <em class="calibre7">"And that's
      why I can destroy Dementors and you can't. Because I believe that
      the darkness can be broken."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two witches laughed - insane and hideous laughter - and
      vanished from his view.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry heard laboured breathing, and turned to see Charlevoix's
      shoulders heaving. Her cheeks were wet with tears.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fucking bitches," said Susie.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Buckeye Dave gave orders to the Brahmins. Марат gave whispered
      commands to the Rakshasa. Cedric gave direction to the aurors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry waited.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He remembered what Dumbledore had written to him - the last word
      in that conversation, delivered after the good man's sacrifice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">There can only be one piece whose value is beyond
      price.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">That piece is not the world, it is the world's peoples,
      wizard and Muggle alike, goblins and house-elves and all.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry lurched into motion. First a step forward, and then
      another. Then he knew what he was doing and knew it was what Fawkes
      would tell him to do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He broke for the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Angry and dismayed shouts broke out from those important enough
      to object, but what could they do? Stun him? Who would dare stun
      Harry Potter-Evans-Verres and ruin his clever plan? Draco called
      out something in alarm, but Harry couldn't understand him. Wouldn't
      understand him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was out the door and into the hall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix Black was there. So was a second Bellatrix Black. They
      stood side-by-side, ten meters away. They stank of death and
      madness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry skidded to a halt, almost falling forward, awkwardly. He
      kept his wand at his side, deliberately, but raised his other
      hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He snapped his fingers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Note: I'm sorry.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The next chapter will be posted in two weeks. It will be
      titled "Walpurgisnacht."</em></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
