<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>39. Harry Potter and the Order of Chaos - Harry Potter and the Order of Chaos Chapter 3: Reasonable Doubt, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="39. Harry Potter and the Order of Chaos"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s3" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 3: Reasonable Doubt</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Draco had very carefully not looked at Hermione as they had left
      the Prefect briefing, and so Hermione knew that she needed to have
      a word in private with Harry. Clearly, Draco's chosen method of
      finding out what they needed to know – namely, waiting around in
      the futile hope that Harry would decide he needed to talk – wasn't
      going to work.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She found Harry's compartment easily – it was the one with a
      large crowd of people gathered outside pretending they weren't
      looking at Harry, who in turn was pretending he hadn't noticed
      their presence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excuse me," Hermione asked politely. The crowd parted, and she
      made her way to the compartment door, shutting it behind her and
      drawing the blinds across the window for good measure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Such an act was in flagrant disregard of their policy against
      fuelling any of the many rumours which surrounded them, and she
      expected Harry to glare up at her as soon as their privacy was
      ensured, pointing out her 'mistake' with a roll of the eyes and
      that expression which said in deafening silence: "I thought you
      were supposed to be <em class="calibre8">smart</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A year ago, that's precisely what he would have done.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now, Harry kept reading. He didn't so much as glance up at
      Hermione, refusing to tear his eyes away from whatever text had him
      so intrigued. With a creeping feeling of dread, Hermione wondered
      if he really hadn't noticed the crowd watching him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It seemed things were worse than she'd thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She took a seat next to Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good summer?" she asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He shrugged wordlessly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione waited for a few seconds to see if he would speak, but
      she quickly lost patience.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come on," she insisted. "I read the papers. That was you in
      Aldermaston, wasn't it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another shrug. "It was Draco's idea."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione didn't say a lot of things. She didn't say: you told us
      years ago you had a plan for Aldermaston. She didn't say: if you've
      been like this all summer I bet Draco only suggested actually doing
      it because he thought it might <em class="calibre8">wake</em> <em class="calibre8">you</em>
      <em class="calibre8">up</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She didn't say: did it work?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But Harry still had his nose in that damned book, and, for once,
      he did not answer the questions she did not ask.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry," she said gently. "What happened in that maze?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He froze, a slight tensing of the muscles which would have
      passed unnoticed had it been witnessed by nearly anyone else.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione began to wonder if she would regret asking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slowly, Harry retrieved a leather bookmark tucked against the
      back cover of the text, placing it carefully at his current
      position before folding the book closed and transferring it to the
      seat next to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Only then did he finally look up, meeting Hermione's eyes with a
      stare so intense it felt almost invasive.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione felt her pulse quickening, but she did not look
      away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you think happened?" Harry spoke flatly and without
      intonation, and unwanted memories sprung to Hermione's mind. She
      tried to ignore them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cedric Diggory died," she answered – the one fact that everyone
      agreed upon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked slowly at her, and she had the sudden impression
      that more was required.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Everyone is saying it was… Voldemort." She forced herself to
      use that name, not the more familiar epithet. She hadn't used the
      other name in front of Harry for over three years.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry kept staring.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But… it can't have been?" Hermione bit her lip, suddenly
      doubting everything she had thought she knew. Even like this, Harry
      could still turn her view of the world inside out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry…" She knew it had to be said, and Draco would never dare
      to say it. It was up to her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She forced the words out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We saw him <em class="calibre8">die</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She didn't know what she had expected Harry to do – flinch, turn
      away, say <em class="calibre8">something</em> – but her expectations were not met.
      Harry just kept staring at her, impassive, as though she were an
      interesting experiment in need of close observation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She wanted to say: you have to tell someone. You can't just keep
      it bottled up like this. It'll drive you insane. But Hermione knew
      better than to tell Harry what he could and couldn't do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She looked away, no longer able to bear his gaze, and found
      herself on her feet before she even knew that <em class="calibre8">she</em>
      <em class="calibre8">had</em> <em class="calibre8">to</em> <em class="calibre8">get</em> <em class="calibre8">out</em> <em class="calibre8">of</em>
      <em class="calibre8">here</em>. She strode across to the door and slammed it shut
      behind her, the crowd of hopeful bystanders scattering before the
      wake of her rage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With eyes dry and expression unclouded, although breaths coming
      perhaps a little heavier than was necessary, Hermione Granger
      leaned for a moment against the compartment door in the suddenly
      empty corridor to collect her thoughts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And, out of the corner of her eye, she saw through a gap in a
      blinds a hand lift a book off of the seat, open it, and begin to
      read once more.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione pretended not to notice that her knock on the
      compartment door had silenced the four girls inside, or that none
      of them moved to invite her in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you mind if I join you?" she said, stepping inside.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lavender Brown, Padma Patil, Daphne Greengrass and Susan Bones
      did not speak as she sat down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ever the Slytherin, Daphne was the first to break the silence,
      smiling warmly at her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Susan was just telling us about her aunt."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lavender and Susan, not quite so subtle, exchanged a meaningful
      glance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She was at the Ministry this summer, when …everything
      happened." Susan admitted quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Oh. Hermione nodded. …<em class="calibre8">Everything</em>. No wonder Susan
      looked a little shaken up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione wondered if any of the other girls in this room
      suspected that Harry had a hand in …everything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She had no proof of that, of course. It wasn't the kind of thing
      you could just ask about, especially not in public. Quite aside
      from anything else, if Harry had been involved then he should have
      had himself obliviated, so he wouldn't be able to tell her
      anything. If, for some ridiculous reason, he hadn't, then she
      certainly didn't want to be the one to draw suspicion onto him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione wasn't even sure if she was possible for one person to
      be responsible for something like that. Unfortunately, that only
      made it seem more likely that Harry was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The whole wizarding world was talking about it. There hadn't
      been an issue of the Prophet which didn't mention it since it had
      happened. And if there really had been someone behind it, they were
      probably the most wanted wizard in Britain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The whole country wanted to know how thousands of Dementors had
      managed to lay siege to the Ministry of Magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She can do a Patronus though, can't she?" Padma asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Susan said quietly. "But she says it almost wasn't
      enough."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It had all begun in their third year – or at least, most of it
      had. Harry had hated Dementors since he had first heard of them, of
      course, and the promise to Draco had come before, but it was their
      third year, with Hogwarts surrounded by Dementors after the escape
      of Sirius Black – only then had Harry finally turned to them and
      explained that he had a <em class="calibre8">plan</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This summer had not been part of the plan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But… it wasn't exactly <em class="calibre8">against</em> it, either.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My parents say they won't feel safe again until every Dementor
      in the country has been exiled." Padma shivered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't blame them," said Daphne.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Precisely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dementors were a menace (so Harry had said, two years ago). They
      were evil, and they were wrong, and everyone who had encountered
      one <em class="calibre8">knew</em> that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The problem was that people thought Dementors were somehow okay
      provided they were a long way away and happening to people who they
      thought deserved it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco had said that no-one deserved it, and Harry had said
      obviously, no-one did, there wasn't anything you could do to
      deserve <em class="calibre8">that</em> and Hermione had been the tiniest bit amazed
      that, after everything, Harry could still say that like it really
      was obvious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had gone on to say that the problem with Dementors was
      that people felt safer with them around, even though it was
      patently obvious to anyone who had ever met one that that was a
      stupid way to think and Dementors would turn on you in a second if
      they thought they would get away with it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione tried very hard not to think about how Harry had spent
      all of five minutes with a Dementor and, while those five minutes
      had definitely been memorable, he sounded far better informed than
      he had any right to be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had said that he had lots of ideas for getting rid of
      Dementors, but that the major problem was that people didn't
      <em class="calibre8">want</em> to get rid of the Dementors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had said that it was simple: all they had to do was change
      that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So The Plan had been simple: change public opinion on the
      Dementors. The case of <em class="calibre8">how</em> had been far more interesting –
      a test on their ingenuity and influence. Letters had been sent.
      Teachers had been complained to. Luna Lovegood had been won
      over.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By Christmas, every Hogwarts student had gone home with a
      complaint about how the Dementors were disrupting their studies,
      and the Quibbler bore dramatic headlines prophesying unprovoked
      attacks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It hadn't been much, and it didn't look like they would achieve
      anything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then January arrived, and a Dementor disappeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was only one, gone missing from the Hogwarts roll one frosty
      day, but suddenly the idea that there was a Dementor on the loose
      had been terrifying. The Daily Prophet was full of complaints,
      asking what was being done to ensure the safety of the
      students.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The rest of the Dementors were gone by Valentine's Day.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By the end of the year, there were calls for a public enquiry
      into the use of Dementors in the penal system, and the Ministry of
      Magic announced that, until a decision was reached, all minimum
      security prisoners would be transferred out of Azkaban into a newly
      constructed, Dementor free prison.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Plan hadn't been over, of course, but in the past year they
      had been rather distracted, and there hadn't seemed to be a lot
      left to do. After all, what could they do to convince the Ministry
      to abolish Dementors completely?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then …everything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My aunt said it was total chaos."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Chaos had been the word for it, by all accounts. Fortunately, no
      souls lost (and if that wasn't Harry's hand at work Hermione didn't
      know how to explain it) but nearly fifty visitors and employees
      hospitalised. Several of the highest level Ministry staff –
      including, it seemed, Susan's Aunt Amelia – had been trapped in the
      building for the better part of a day before emergency aid from
      Europe had been called in to finally drive the Dementors out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Yes, chaos was the right word.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was also, Hermione had noticed, the <em class="calibre8">only</em> word anyone
      seemed to be using. For five editions, the Prophet had used it
      almost obsessively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It could have been a coincidence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Or the Prophet knew something and had been told to keep the
      story quiet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If the word chaos was the hint, then surely Harry had to be the
      answer – but, why would he be so <em class="calibre8">obvious</em>? – but, who would
      <em class="calibre8">know</em> outside of Hogwarts? – but, it wasn't exactly
      <em class="calibre8">subtle</em> – but, did Harry even <em class="calibre8">care</em> any more?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She really, really hoped he'd had himself obliviated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If nothing else, that would mean he couldn't do it again.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Author's Note: As may be somewhat obvious from the dates, this
      fic is on indefinite hiatus and is unlikely to update for the
      foreseeable future.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
