<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Technique of Quidditch - Chapter 2 - Fiction Hub</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Technique of Quidditch"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 2</h1>
      <div class="calibre4">
      <p class="calibre6">Once again, Cedric stood in the center of his team as they lined
      up on the midfield line. "Are we going to play a fair game this
      time, Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No?" The yellow-clad squad visibly bristled. Hufflepuffs held
      hard work and fair play in high regard, and last of the Potters
      wasn't even trying to conceal his skulduggery.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, because that wouldn't be interesting. My team is composed
      entirely of first years, two of them scared of flying, and a third
      riding a stick older than the school's Cleansweep Sevens."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Watch it, Potter! I'm only doing this as a favor to General
      Granger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry continued in stride while Hermione pulled Ron aside. "If
      we were to play fair, there would be no contest. The Hufflepuff
      house team is so overwhelmingly favored to win that you can't even
      savor the victory. I mean, how much pride can you take in crushing
      a team of, effectively, four and a half first years? In short, if
      we play fair -- meaning with no tricks up our sleeves -- it still
      wouldn't be a fair game -- meaning a relatively even match where
      both sides have a decent chance of victory."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see." Cedric folded his arms across his chest. "You know,
      there are other reasons to play a friendly game of quidditch."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry paused. "Such as?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Spending the afternoon with friends. The simple joy of flying,
      especially in weather like this." Today's sky was unusually bright
      and clear for Scotland. "And there are some things about a real
      game that drills can't quite provide, so mixing them with what our
      Defense professor would call 'live-fire exercises' is good
      practice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah." Harry looked and felt properly chagrined. His mind flashed
      back to the first Battle Magic class of the year, the day Professor
      Quirrell outed him as the most dangerous student in the year.
      <em class="calibre7">The intent to kill, the will to win.</em> "Well, I'm afraid
      playing us in a fair game wouldn't give your team much practice.
      But I can offer you a game against a team with unusual tactics.
      Since I have not been indoctrinated by <em class="calibre7">Quidditch Through the
      Ages</em> or traditional modes of thought, I can offer an outside
      perspective."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Said Cedric, with a smirk, "Some how, Mr. Potter, I'm not sure
      we could use your 'techniques' in an official quidditch game."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Almost certainly. That is, if they were caught." Harry noticed
      the seven Hufflepuffs, all older and taller than him, now also
      looked considerably colder. The glares from behind him weren't much
      better. "Not that <em class="calibre7">I</em> would do that in a serious game, but
      Slytherin house does have a certain reputation. Furthermore,
      highlighting certain exploitable aspects of quidditch may lead us
      to think of legal innovations."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Hufflepuff captain turned to his team. A couple of them were
      as curious as he was. Heidi just rolled her eyes and gave him a
      'whatever' face. "All right, Harry, we're still interested."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excellent. See if you discover what the technique is and try to
      counter it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Diggory pulled his wand out of the dueling holster hidden
      underneath his quidditch robes. "Suppose I just cast Finite
      Incantatem on you right now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry bowed. "Then you win. Hermione and I are the only ones
      here who can cast the charm. If you dispel it each time we recast
      it, even working together, we would reach magical exhaustion before
      you. Shall we see how the game would have gone?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric cracked a grin and stowed his wand back up his sleeve.
      "Let's see what you've got, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">---===tvtropeswillruinyourlife===---</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">snap</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fourteen players kicked off the sun baked grass and launched
      into the air. Immediately, Harry went into an oval search pattern.
      Cedric followed, keeping one eye on Harry and whatever his
      "technique" was and another out for the snitch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Except the Ravenclaw was flying far faster than seekers normally
      flew. A seeker going at top speed might cover more ground, but it
      became really hard to spot the snitch when everything was a
      blur.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric kicked his broom to match speed, but his eyes had real
      trouble scanning around him, so he mostly concentrated on Harry
      instead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ten - zero.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As far as Cedric could tell, other than flying far faster than
      typical, Harry was acting normally: speeding up and slowing down
      and making slight course adjustments to get a better look at things
      that caught his eye.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Twenty - zero.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey accidentally fouled a Hufflepuff chaser. But while the
      two teams set up the penalty shot, the two seekers continued to
      circle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Thirty - zero.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The truth was that the first year chasers were so insubstantial
      that the 'Puffs probably would have scored more goals continuing
      play as normal rather than stopping the action to arrange the
      penalty.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Forty - zero.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron made a miraculous save, but then Heidi beat Neville to the
      rebounding quaffle and did a neat Finbourgh Flick from a tricky
      angle. The red quaffle glanced off the rim of the hoop and
      through.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fifty - zero.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric saw Harry dive and, yes, there was the snitch. One of the
      Hufflepuff beaters, Maxine, knocked a bludger on an intercept
      course. Susan managed to deflect it away from Harry, though she
      hadn't thought through where she should hit it, and it started
      chasing Hermione instead. Cedric was still a good three broom
      lengths behind when Harry's fingers closed over the snitch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">---===tvtropeswillruinyourlife===---</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry handed the practice snitch back to the Hufflepuff captain,
      who had checked the balls for this game out from Madam Hooch. "Do
      you have a hypothesis?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric tallied the evidence. "You admitted using a charm that
      could be dispelled by Finite, and you flew way faster than normal
      for seekers. So my guess is your charm helps you see better. I
      don't suppose you turned your glasses into omnioculars?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Interesting idea. Zoom and playback features could help search
      for the snitch, but no, that's not it." The two teams settled
      themselves in the stands while Harry passed around fourteen chilled
      butterbeers from out of his mokeskin pouch, his compensation to the
      others for participating in the experiment. "Before I explain, I
      should mention that, while doing background research, I verified a
      story about a Hogwarts match played during a rainstorm. A
      third-year seeker had Impervius cast on his glasses to keep the
      rain out of his eyes. This implies that using magic to assist
      vision is allowed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric swallowed his mouthful of butterbeer. "Something tells me
      your spell is a lot more game breaking than Impervius."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True. What do you look for when hunting the snitch?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, a glint or streak of gold is a good clue."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Exactly, the primary identifying feature of the snitch is that
      it shines like gold. What makes gold look like gold is that it
      reflects almost all of the light that hits it, especially red and
      yellow, though blue not so much. And muggle scientists have
      discovered that, if you look at a rainbow and move from yellow to
      orange to red and past the colors we can see, there is still more
      light that human eyes are not adapted to see. Furthermore, gold and
      other metals reflect this light pretty well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So my second idea was to charm my eyes or my glasses to see
      this invisible color. Then if I shine the quidditch pitch with this
      light, I could more easily spot metallic objects while everyone
      else would see nothing, though they might notice they were warmer
      than expected. There were two flaws with this plan, however. First,
      muggle devices that can shine a directed beam of this light won't
      work in Hogwarts. Second, since wizards don't know about this
      light, of course there wouldn't be a spell to see it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took a swig from his bottle. "But my third idea paid off.
      After some research, I found a spell that became popular among
      North American wizards during the mid-nineteenth century and asked
      Professor Flitwick to teach Hermione and me." Harry removed his
      glasses and handed them to Cedric.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric held them up to his face but did not put them on. A
      couple teammates peered over his shoulder. Even in the dimming
      afternoon sun, the snitch laying secured in the quidditch supply
      trunk glowed like a beacon. So did the silver lettering on the open
      case. "Amazing, Mr. Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I learned about the spell in a book on goblins and Gringotts.
      During the various gold rushes, prospecting wizards used it to
      detect precious metals. Similar spells are used in transfiguration
      and potions to detect metals."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is an interesting idea, Harry, but it wouldn't be allowed in
      a real game. What you describe sounds like using Lumos to search
      for a snitch during night games, but that's explicitly
      prohibited."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I noticed that when I was reading the rulebook for
      loopholes to exploit. I do see what Professor Quirrell was saying
      about it being odd that the wizarding sport doesn't involve any
      spellcasting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Apparently even simple spells can grant huge advantages, so
      prohibiting magic seems to be the best way to have a fair
      game."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought about that too. What if I only used magic to give
      myself a disability? Shouldn't it be legal to handicap myself?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric grinned slyly. "Why do I think that your 'handicap' isn't
      really one?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine." Harry didn't think a fourth year army general would fall
      for so obvious a lure. "My fourth idea was to find a spell that
      removed my ability to see all colors except gold. Or failing that,
      everything except yellows."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric shook his head. "Your reputation is well-earned, General
      Chaos. Though that spell would make it hard to tell who is on which
      team. So, you've mentioned idea two through four. Are there more?
      What was the first?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stood up. "To demonstrate my first idea, I have to make a
      floo call."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">---===tvtropeswillruinyourlife===---</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric greeted Harry's replacement seeker, who was almost
      entirely encased in leather armor. "Honor to meet you. But, Harry,
      I do think we would have noticed this one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's why there were ideas two through four. Shall we run the
      experiment?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Upon the instant the game started, the seeker made a beeline for
      something only he could see. Cedric gamely gave chase. Anthony and
      Maxine belted both bludgers at the new seeker, knowing it would be
      their only chance to interrupt Harry's plan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The seeker dodged both easily. Bludgers were far slower than
      spells.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The second game ended 150 to 0 and lasted all of seventeen
      seconds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Back on the ground, Harry made introductions, though some
      students continued to stand well back. "Everyone, this is Alastor
      Moody."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
