<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Technique of Quidditch - Chapter 3 - Fiction Hub</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Technique of Quidditch"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s3" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 3</h1>
      <div class="calibre4">
      <p class="calibre6">"Is the plan to make us bored or anxious through waiting, Mr.
      Potter?" joked Cedric. The Hufflepuff house team and six of Harry's
      first year team were scattered around the center of the pitch. With
      nothing better to do, some were chatting among themselves, others
      were maintaining or doing tricks on their brooms. Only Hermione was
      missing, and Cedric had been keeping an eye out for her, in case
      she was setting up part of Harry's scheme.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope. Our seventh player is just really really busy. Oh, there
      he is." A hunched figure shambled onto the pitch. Maybe he was late
      because he had been dragging his feet the whole way from his
      office. Harry sighed. "And this cost me a lot of Quirrell
      points."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry walked over then stopped short, tossing Professor Quirrell
      the broom instead of handing it to him. The zombie made a weak
      attempt to catch the broom but missed, and it flopped onto the wet
      grass.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed again. "A lot of points." Turning to Cedric, he
      asked, "Shall we get started?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric considered. Zombie Quirrell might just be an act, since
      Harry and Professor Quirrell together must have come up with
      something diabolical. "Was today's scheme your idea or Professor
      Quirrell's or both?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh no, I brought it to Professor Quirrell but needed his help
      to carry it off. Professor Quirrell would have charged me ten times
      as many points if he had to come up with the idea as well. Up!" The
      last remark was directed at Harry's borrowed broom, which leaped
      eagerly into his hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All right, Mr. Potter." Cedric mounted his broom. Without
      glancing over his shoulder, he knew his team had done the same.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry waited until the keepers had reached their respective ends
      of the pitch and waved that they were ready. <em class="calibre7">snap</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric kicked off hard and pushed his Cleansweep Seven to
      maximum acceleration. But as he alternated scanning the skies and
      checking he wasn't about to hit anyone, Cedric realized he couldn't
      see Harry or Professor Quirrell. Going into full scan mode, he saw
      Harry already heading for the ground where Professor Quirrell
      stood. It looked like Professor Quirrell hadn't even picked up the
      broom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Cedric touched down nearby, Professor Quirrell -- standing
      upright and no longer a zombie -- said with a tired tone, "Will
      that be all, Mr. Potter?" In his right hand was the golden snitch,
      flapping in vain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, thank you for your time, Professor." The Battle Magic
      professor's jaw went slack, as did his hand, allowing the snitch to
      flutter off. Zombie Professor Quirrell shuffled back in the
      direction of the castle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">---===tvtropeswillruinyourlife===---</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two teams, minus Quirrell and Hermione, settled into the
      bleachers. Once again, Harry pulled butterbeers out of his pouch
      and handed them around.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, it's good manners to tell the other team who is
      playing which position," commented Cedric. "Since you were seeker
      both previous games, I assumed you were still seeker and Professor
      Quirrell was filling in for your missing chaser."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then I apologize." Harry handed Cedric a chilled bottle while
      trying to look sufficiently contrite. "Being muggle-raised and not
      growing up playing quidditch, I was unaware."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's all right." Cedric popped open his bottle with stylish
      flick of his wand. "The thing is, Professor Quirrell knows so much
      magic that we could sit here all afternoon and still not guess what
      the trick was."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The search space is rather large," agreed Harry, "So here's a
      clue: all he used was a fourth-year spell." One of the Hufflepuffs
      coughed when some butterbeer went down the wrong pipe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just a fourth-year spell?" asked Cedric, confused. "Then why
      did you need Professor Quirrell to pull it off?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Actually, I needed him for something else. Clearly, Professor
      Quirrell used some magic to cheat that is illegal under the rules
      of quidditch. If this were an official game, what would then
      happen?" At that moment, Harry looked remarkably like Professor
      McGonagall cold calling a student in class with a question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well..." Cedric riffled through the stories of infamous
      quidditch matches he had heard about. "I guess cast <em class="calibre7">prior
      incantato</em> on his wand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right. Of course, Professor Quirrell wouldn't just hand over
      his wand and leave himself exposed like that. But let's say he did
      allow it and <em class="calibre7">prior incantato</em> showed nothing incriminating,
      such as a scouring charm or something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric knew this one from reading auror procedural novels. "Then
      he cast the scouring charm sometime between catching the snitch and
      giving up his wand to throw people off. But there are ways to
      extend the reverse spell effect to see more of the wand's
      history."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what if that also turned up nothing?" Cedric's brow
      wrinkled. "Remember, this is why I needed Professor Quirrell and
      not just any fourth year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you needed Professor Quirrell," thought Cedric aloud, "But
      not for him to use his wand. But why would you need a powerful
      wizard and all the spells at his disposal but not his wand?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Anthony, one of the Hufflepuff beaters, suggested, "He got
      Professor Quirrell to intimidate the snitch?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, Harry did say a fourth-year spell was involved." Cedric
      clapped his gloved hands together. "I got it! Wandless magic!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grinned. "It would have been a bit of a giveaway if I
      started waving my wand around during the game. Professor Quirrell
      also cast it wordlessly too, in case someone overheard him. And
      have you guessed what spell I suggested Professor Quirrell
      use?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's in the fourth year curriculum?" asked Cedric. Harry
      nodded. "It's most likely a charm. So that means... Ah!
      <em class="calibre7">Accio</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry applauded Cedric's deduction. "May I demonstrate?" Harry
      pulled his wand from his wrist holster. After Professor Quirrell
      had released the snitch, no one had caught the snitch, so it was
      still flitting about the stadium. Harry made a circle then a
      downward motion. "<em class="calibre7">Accio</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Seconds passed but nothing happened. Harry shrugged and adopted
      the tone of a lecturer. "The summoning charm is a very versatile
      spell. For example, I read that a couple seventh years summoned
      their brooms through a locked door but then got the brooms to
      navigate through the hallways of Hogwarts." Harry took a deep
      breath, gathering his magic again. He pointed to a different part
      of the stadium. "<em class="calibre7">Accio!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Still nothing happened, though Harry was breathing more heavily
      now. "But the story that really got me thinking was about this book
      thief. She suspected that some rare books were hidden in an office,
      but she didn't know where in the office or even if they were there.
      But she cast <em class="calibre7">accio</em> and, sure enough, the books came
      floating out. And that is why anti-summoning charms should be
      standard in anti-burglary wards. <em class="calibre7">Accio</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Still no snitch. "Bottom line, <em class="calibre7">accio</em> doesn't just
      summon objects, it also searches for objects. Of course, the more
      precisely you know the location of the object, the easier it is to
      cast. Professor Quirrell, even wandless, can search more
      efficiently than I am doing. But searching a quidditch pitch is
      just a matter of time. <em class="calibre7">Accio!</em>" A streak of gold flew into
      Harry's palm. "Just because it isn't an OWL- or NEWT-level spell
      doesn't mean it's not useful."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
