<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>40. Dennis and the Academy - Dennis and the Academy Chapter 8: Chaos Club, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="40. Dennis and the Academy"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s9" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 8: Chaos Club</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">There they were, framed in the doorway: the green-eyed boy with
      the famous lightning-bolt scar, and the beautiful white-blond boy
      that I soon learned was Draco Malfoy. Of course, after all I'd
      heard about Harry Potter-Evans-Verres – the Boy-Who-Lived,
      developer of Fixus Everythingus, savior of Hermione Granger, and
      friend of the Minister of Magic – I simply <em class="calibre7"><em class="calibre7">had</em></em> to
      take his picture.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But before I could press the shutter button on my camera, Harry
      spotted the camera and looked straight at me. I froze in surprise,
      and before I could move again the Boy-Who-Lived to put an expansive
      arm around Draco, guiding his beautiful friend to look directly
      into the camera as well. So my first photo of Harry Potter turned
      out to be a photo of Draco Malfoy too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This, I now know, was image-control on Harry's part. Harry is
      playing a long-range game, you see. He knows that even childhood
      photos of himself and Draco could have small but important
      consequences for Draco's long term political career. The Malfoys
      are a lot more popular after Fixus Everythingus and after Lucius
      Malfoy's recent political shift, but there's still a lot of ugly
      history behind House Malfoy. They're even suspected of terrorist
      activities during the last war, and little actions can make a big
      difference.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I still have that first photo. Looking at it now, it sort of
      reminds me of a Muggle newspaper photo I once saw of the President
      of the United States with Vice President Clinton. I suppose that
      makes some sense. Professor Snape is continually praising Harry for
      his precocious Slytherin instincts, and what could be more
      Slytherin than politics? Besides, with the Minister of Magic as his
      mentor, why wouldn't Harry think like a politician?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Draco looked an awful lot like politicians on the
      telly as they entered the classroom, too. The students on the floor
      rearranging themselves to create a path and Draco strode forward,
      smiling and waving. Harry walked a few strides behind. I noticed
      that even though Draco watched in front, it was Harry that
      everybody was watching. When Draco moved to stand at the teachers'
      podium while Harry sat at the long table in front of the classroom
      I think the students shifted a little uneasily. I took a few more
      photos, and then sat down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was clear that the students wanted to hear from Harry, not
      Draco, but eventually they quieted down to listen anyway. I reckon
      he talked for about a quarter hour. He told about how he first
      became interested in Muggle Science (thanks to Harry) and how House
      Slytherin had changed the year before. He said that Chaos Club
      would be important because it would give Hogwarts students a chance
      to independently explore the principles of Muggle Science and to
      practice methods of thinking more rationally.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He also talked about his own previous prejudices against
      Muggle-borns and how his acquaintaince with Hermione Granger had
      challenged those beliefs even before he and Harry had used Muggle
      Science to analyse the concept of blood purity. Draco looked up
      shyly at Granger when he was explaining all this, and when I turned
      to look, she was looking down, her face a little reddened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco added that we should not trust his word on the outcomes of
      his and Harry's research. The methods were simple, he said, and
      he'd love to see the experiment replicated. Repeatability, he said,
      was essential to Muggle Science. When he finally paused, several
      students took this as invitation to begin asking the questions on
      everybody's minds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did Potter frighten that dementor, anyway?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is it true that Minister Monroe wants to shut down
      Azkaban?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When do we get to learn how Fixus Everythingus works?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And so on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco turned to Harry, raised an eyebrow, and Harry stood to
      take the podium. I could feel the anticipation rising in the room,
      and seized the moment to stand up and take another photo. That one
      was a proper portrait of Harry. He held his head high and looked
      directly into the camera. He wasn't about to answer most of the
      student questions, though.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Instead, he spoke for a long time about Muggle technology. All
      very ordinary stuff to any child raised in a Muggle household, with
      Muggle television, but much of what he said appeared to be very
      impressive to the mostly Wizardborn audience. Harry told us about
      biomedicine, about electronics, and about space exploration. He
      spent a long time talking about the Moon Landing. I guess that the
      Moon Landing was a carefully selected topic, because that seemed to
      be what really got the attention of the students. It turns out that
      magic can't be used for space travel, and the idea that Muggles had
      done something that wizards couldn't was quite a shock for most of
      the audience. So Harry spoke for a long time about rocket
      technology, about the Russian satellite Sputnik and the race to the
      moon, and about the satellites that made weather-prediction
      possible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Harry got around to explaining about weather forecasting,
      George Weasley made a low remark that I didn't quite catch,
      something like, "Imagine, a type of Divination that actually
      works..." and several of the older students sitting near him
      snickered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna, sitting next to me, stiffened. She glared at George but
      remained silent. Perhaps it should have occurred to me then that it
      had been a mistake to give her one of the Chaos Club cards, but I
      was too wrapped up in watching Harry working the crowd. His
      confidence was unreal, and he spoke just like a grown-up. He gave
      extremely simplified explanations of everything, though, and I
      began to realize how much work it must have been to figure out how
      to explain all of this in ways that wizard children could
      understand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eventually he concluded, "You see what Muggle scientists have
      been able to accomplish even without any capacity for magic. When
      combined with the power of Wizardry, the possibilities are
      unimaginable. As you all know from the changes to the Hogwarts
      curriculum, a few wizards are beginning to realize the
      opportunities already. But there's more to be done. Draco and I are
      asking you now to join us in this great endeavour."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">I thought that speech of Harry's was totally brilliant. I
      couldn't wait to get into researching something really interesting
      like magic... not some silly school project on which fabric is most
      waterproof or anything boring like that, and I was so sure that
      Chaos Club was going to be huge. That's not quite the way things
      happened, though.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The next week the Slytherin classroom was half empty, and by the
      middle of the term, the group had shrunk down to just a few of us.
      There were some second years who knew Harry and Draco particularly
      well, the Weasley twins, and a few muggle-borns from various years.
      Granger and her attendants kept showing up as well, though a lot of
      the time it seems that Granger is just there to argue with Harry.
      As the group got smaller, things became more relaxed, though. At
      the start of each meeting, Draco casts a quick spell to arrange the
      chairs in a circle, and then we settle in to free-form discussion,
      or do a science experiment or rationality exercise that Harry and
      Draco have come up with.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was just after one of the experiments that Luna finally
      decided she'd had enough of Chaos Club. I really shouldn't have
      been surprised that Chaos Club wasn't as good for Luna as it was
      for me. She has a lot of unusual ideas about the way magic works,
      and while Draco and Harry are always interested in new ideas, they
      always insist on the need for evidence. That idea doesn't quite fit
      into Luna's way of looking at things. Luna swears she isn't upset
      about it, but I feel bad about the way things went, and although
      Ginny still sometimes comes to the Chaos Club meetings with me, I
      don't think she'll ever really forgive Harry.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Author's notes:</strong> Chapter 9 should be published
      on or before May 1, 2014.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
