<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>20. Squiring the Phoenix - Squiring the Phoenix Chapter 4, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="20. Squiring the Phoenix"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s4" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 4</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Caitlin Cross arrived at the Symposium, flipped through her
      briefing packet, and asked to be shown to a potions lab before
      she'd even gone to the initial meeting. Fortunately, the lab came
      equipped with several seventh-year students to provide guidance and
      a plentiful supply of most of the listed potions to provide raw
      materials.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Obvious experiments being obvious, she used one of the knives to
      clip a few hairs out of her pony tail and dropped them into some of
      the raw Polyjuice stock. She waited, observing carefully until it
      finished transforming into something that looked rather like grape
      juice but smelled like Coca-Cola. Only when her seventh-year lab
      assistant assured her that the stuff was ready did she sterilize
      the knife and make a small cut on her hand. Sure enough, after
      chugging down the grape-Coke, the cut was gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the notepad that she kept in her hip pocket she wrote: PJuice
      turns u 2 state when gave hair. Hm, state or condition? reset age?
      Heals. Myb 4 firemen/diver/hi-risks? Gv hr b4 risk, take PJ if
      hurt. Temp only - need dr when wears off. Eliminates bends? Puts
      air back in lungs of drowner? any issue w/long term? gen much hair
      25, drink 4ever, stay young?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Turning to her assigned seventh year, she demanded, "Will this
      stuff fix brain damage? Or regrow limbs? Does it clear out fatigue
      poisons? How about food-if you just had a big meal when you give
      the hair, are you full again when you drink the juice? How
      about-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The student's eyes started to get a little frantic as the
      questions poured out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Brenda sighed; back at the Symposium with all the wizard experts
      around to explain things, this magic stuff had seemed much clearer.
      Now that she was actually coming to grips with it in the
      field...not so much.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For the ninth time she had carefully crushed her Flitterby Moth
      into pulp, carefully added it to the cauldron, and carefully
      stirred it clockwise. For the ninth time, it had entirely failed to
      turn green, much less the later red and orange states.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Was I stirring too far on the outside again?" she asked
      hopefully. "Or...maybe it wasn't fast enough?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her teacher shook his head. "I'm sorry, my dear," he said sadly.
      "As far as I could see, you did everything exactly right." He
      paused, then hurried on with clear intent to be encouraging. "I
      must say, I wish all my students were so dedicated! You've learned
      much more quickly than any of my first years!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Brenda slumped. Damnit. It had seemed like such a good
      idea-Muggles couldn't cast spells with a wand, but surely they
      could make potions? At least the simple potions, the ones that
      didn't involve wand work. After all, potions were basically just
      cooking, right? Only waaaay more useful. The Pepper Up Potion was a
      perfect example-it cured the common cold! Sure, it made steam shoot
      out your ears for a few hours, but who the hell cared? If you could
      modify it into something that cured malaria and make it in
      industrial batches it could save tens of millions of lives...but
      there weren't enough wizards to produce that much that with normal
      procedures, and the line of experiments she was running were
      leaning pretty strongly towards the 'Muggles can't brew potions'
      camp, which meant that automation wouldn't work.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She wondered idly if the problem could be the equipment, or
      perhaps the teacher? Malinmort Pennybristle was a ridiculous name
      for a ridiculous man; he spoke with a nasal precision that sounded
      less like a British accent and more like an American stereotype of
      a British accent. His hat was an enormous puce puffball with a
      green yarn fringe, he was thin as a scarecrow, he wore a paisley
      longcoat, and his shoes looked like he'd stolen them from backstage
      at a clown show. Despite all that, he was an accredited potions
      master, albeit at a third-rate school in Dover, and the equipment
      and ingredients were all brought directly from his classroom. He'd
      already demonstrated that he could use them to produce a Pompion
      potion that would successfully turn a rat's head into a pumpkin for
      a few hours.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmph." She glowered at the stupid cauldron and its completely
      non-green contents. "This is irritating. The cauldron doesn't
      matter; you can make a potion in a cauldron or an Erlenmeyer flask,
      although I can't do it in either. You can make potions using
      ingredients that I prepared. You can make potions using ingredients
      that I both prepare and add. I can't prepare potions even if you
      prepare and add the ingredients and I just do the stirring. So, it
      comes from...the stirring? Really?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm terribly sorry, my dear," he said. "I did warn you. Without
      a magical presence, I don't think it's possible for you to perform
      magic, even something like potion-making that doesn't require a
      wand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She sighed. Magic was just so aggravating! Powerful, clearly
      functional, fascinating, but more aggravating than first year
      students!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All right, there's one more thing I want to try," she said.
      "I'll hold the spoon, but you move my hand in the correct pattern,
      all right? Don't touch the spoon, though. I want to see if magic is
      conductive. Oh, and you'll need to prepare and add the ingredients
      as well; I want to keep this to one variable."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When they'd started working together, she'd spent a good ninety
      minutes trying to explain the scientific method to him. He'd paid
      attention, nodded at all the right parts, and then at the end he'd
      asked "Now, these variables that you're putting through the
      trials-does it matter if they're wild, or will farm-raised ones
      work?" She'd had to look at him for a minute to see if he was
      messing with her; he wasn't. Eventually she decided it was a better
      use of time to just black-box the whole thing; he had no problem
      doing whatever crazy thing she wanted as long as he got paid. Come
      to that, his time was costing her lab out the wazoo, so it was
      better not to waste any of it trying to cram four hundred years of
      scientific discovery into a brain that was, in many respects, from
      a medieval society-and wasn't that just a charming thought? A bunch
      of enormously powerful physics-breaking wizards who still believed
      in feudalism.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He listened to the directions, shrugged, Vanished the contents
      of her cauldron, and happily prepped another batch of Bouncing
      Bulb, foxglove, and Flitterby Moth. (She'd been terribly
      embarrassed when she'd accidentally called it 'Fluttershy' in the
      beginning; fortunately he didn't get the reference.). Once
      everything was ready, he took her right hand in his and stirred as
      he dropped ingredients in with his left. She locked her eyes on how
      he was stirring, determined to engrave every motion on her brain so
      she could reproduce them perfectly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fifteen seconds later, she had a cast iron pot full of water,
      plants, and some mooshed-up bugs. There was nary a trace of green
      anywhere, much less red or orange.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh," she said, staring at the cauldron. "Have to admit, I
      thought that would work. Okay, one more: this time, you hold the
      spoon and I'll stir."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One more Vanishment, preparation, and experiment. She reproduced
      the pattern of his stirring as exactly as she could manage
      and...voila. An orange potion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Goddamit," she said in disgust. "Really? As long as you're
      holding the the spoon, that's enough?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As it turned out, he didn't even need to be holding it. Pinching
      it between the very ends of two fingertips was fine. In fact, any
      sort of physical connection was sufficient so long as it would
      allow him to, in theory, stir with proper energy and control. He
      could stir the potion with a spoon, a ruler, or a spoon taped to a
      ruler. He could not stir it with a piece of thread, or a spoon
      taped to a piece of thread. It didn't matter if she was the one
      actually causing the motion. It didn't even matter if his hand was
      completely still, as long as he could have stirred the potion in
      theory. When she experimented with a plumb bob on the end of a
      long-handled spoon she discovered that it didn't even matter if an
      inanimate object was causing the motion. It just mattered that he
      was physically touching the object being used to stir, and had a
      solid enough connection that he could have caused the stirring had
      he desired.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, Professor," she said. "I need to go write all this
      up and figure out the next round of experiments. Could we meet
      again next month-say, on the third?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course, my dear," he said with a bright smile. "It was a
      great pleasure; I'll look forward to doing more of these
      experiments of yours-I haven't worked on potion discovery since my
      thesis, it was good fun to get back to it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She opened her mouth to object that they weren't trying to
      discover new potions, they were trying to discover the rules behind
      potion-making...and then closed it again. Right, feudal brain.
      Instead of arguing she just politely agreed and ushered him out
      before dropping into her desk chair and turning on the word
      processor. <em class="calibre7">Observations on the Principles for Preparation of
      Alchemical Substances by non-Wizards</em> had a nice ring to
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good afternoon, Doctor de Gray," Harry said as he walked in.
      "Do you have a moment? I was hoping to hear how the experiments
      with troll blood were going."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, I told you you can call me Aubrey," he said. "The guy
      who gets the grant gets to skip the 'Doctor'. Grab a seat. And, to
      answer your question, the experiments are...going. Initial results
      were positive; add troll blood to a mouse and it starts
      spontaneously regenerating, even from limb removal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I take it they didn't remain positive?" the young man
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Aubrey shook his head. "Nope. After a few hours the mouse
      spontaneously develops cancer pretty much throughout its body and
      usually needs to be euthanized the next day. We're working on
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We've been kicking around some other ideas, though. I was
      reading through the Journal of Cryptozoology about the latest
      studies on unicorns and dragons. Neither of them seem to have a
      natural end to their lifespan, and I saw something about this
      Voldemort guy partially resurrecting himself by drinking unicorn
      blood. Is that true? I can't tell with this wizarding stuff what's
      real and what's a joke."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Yes, that was real. It did bad things to him,
      though-he was basically possessing Professor Quirrell, and he
      couldn't hold the possession full time. He would periodically lose
      control and the body would go into this zombie state. And it didn't
      work indefinitely-he told me that he would have eventually died
      anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Aubrey blinked. "He told you? When?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Day before yesterday," Harry said. "The unicorn blood was
      actually the reason I came by; I thought it might make a good
      stabilizer for the troll blood. Looks like you already thought of
      it, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Day before yesterday. Didn't he die…a while ago?" Aubrey asked
      faintly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded and pulled a stone from inside thin air next to his
      belt. "This is the Resurrection Stone," he explained. "It can be
      used to recall any spirit that you've got a close connection to."
      He saw Aubrey's mouth opening and beat him to it. "And yes, that
      could include Doctor Erdös, if we had someone who knew him
      well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Aubrey stared off into space for a long minute.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Aubrey stared off into space for another long minute.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh," he said again. He shook himself, coming back into focus.
      "Okay, for now I'm going to ignore the apparent existence of a
      hyperspace pocket near your belt, not to mention this whole
      'speaking to the dead' thing and the implications of life after
      death, resurrection, and the possibility of an actual God. Let's
      just finish the bit about unicorns, dragons, and trolls, and then
      I'll have about a sagan questions for you. Now, the obvious thing
      to me is if we can get some unicorn blood that doesn't have those
      side effects. The bit that I read made it sound like it was killing
      the unicorn that was the problem, not drinking the blood. So, I was
      wondering…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A small steel ball hurled through the void; the far gone railgun
      that had sent it blasting up through the sky and out into space had
      given it more speed than any bullet mankind had ever invented, yet
      it barely seemed to move against the backdrop of the stars.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A flash of fire next to the ball and the void was no longer
      empty; the ball hurtled on, uncaring.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Like the Titan he was named for, Hyperion the phoenix wasn't
      bothered by little things like vacuum or sleeting radiation. His
      person, on the other hand, was much squishier, so Joel was
      thoroughly swaddled in the best spacesuit that NASA could
      create.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He felt himself burn up from the noisy cargo room at Kennedy,
      and he felt himself burn down somewhere so silent that he could
      hear the blood in his veins. He kept his eyes tightly closed while
      taking several deep breaths. It hadn't gotten any easier with
      repetition, but at least he'd gotten faster so he wouldn't have to
      be here as long. One more deep breath and he made himself open his
      eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The universe fell away in front of him, sending him tumbling
      head-over-heels down a bottomless black shaft with tiny lights in
      the walls. Everything was silent except for his own breathing and
      blood, which served only to remind him of what would happen if his
      suit ruptured-it would be what Peri had shown him the night he
      came: eyes freezing, cold vacuum sucking the air out of his lungs
      and burning them like ice cream too long in the freezer. He
      wouldn't explode, of course-that was just sloppy research on the
      part of Hollywood. No, instead he would freeze solid and tumble
      endlessly through cold blackness until all the stars burned out and
      every last proton in the universe decayed….</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He locked his eyes on the satellite under his hand and fought
      the panic attack down. Peri leaned down and rubbed his head along
      Joel's fishbowl helmet, but it didn't help much. The phoenix
      couldn't sing in vacuum and he couldn't touch Joel through the
      suit, but at least he was there, another living presence in the
      vast lonely emptiness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The satellite was designed to be easy to set up: unfold the
      solar panel 'wings', check that they were locked, push the button
      to do a diagnostic, wait while the computer ran a starchart match
      and verified that it knew its location. If the green light came on
      he was cleared to return home. If the red light came on he should
      re-check the wings and re-run the diagnostic. If it came up red
      again, bring the thing home. No matter what, he'd be burning home
      in no more than four minutes, even with the time necessary to pick
      up the railgun bullet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The diagnostic and starchart matching took just under a minute.
      He'd done this three times a week for the last four months, and
      each time had been the longest minute of Joel's life. Lockheed was
      ramping up production on the satellites; soon he would be deploying
      one every day, then two, and eventually they had talked about the
      possibility of lobbing fifty per day. The astronomers wanted as
      many nodes as they could get in order to increase the resolution on
      their Space-based Very Long Baseline Array. One of them had
      excitedly told him that they'd be able to view exoplanets with
      newspaper-reading resolution, once Joel had deployed "just a few
      thousand" nodes. He'd nearly thrown up on the man's shoes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The green light finally came on. He sighed with relief and
      tapped Peri; again they burned up, and then burned down floating
      alongside a small steel ball with the number "193" etched on the
      side. It seemed odd to him that they needed to recover this
      particular bullet, but he hadn't cared enough to ask; he'd been too
      focused on the fact that it would mean another half-minute or so
      floating in blackness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Joel reached out and picked the ball up, then took a deep
      breath. This was the hard part; he needed to seem calm and excited
      when they burned back. If the people at NASA knew about his
      rapidly-developing agoraphobia they'd never let him go out again,
      and humanity would stay trapped on Earth. A few more years, a few
      more nodes in the Array and they'd be able to see exoplanets in
      enough detail that he and Peri could burn there. At that point he'd
      never have to be in free space again. He just needed to keep it
      together until then.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When he finally felt like he wasn't going to throw up in the
      next few seconds, he tapped Peri on the shoulder to signal
      readiness. They burned back to the safe solidity of Mother Terra,
      Joel still clutching the railgun bullet that had been their
      location marker for the satellite deployment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wizards were suddenly the most desired Guests of Honor at
      conferences around the world; they were generally mobbed, so Ben
      was quick to buttonhole Mrs Dilby when he saw her standing briefly
      alone in the con suite.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hi Mrs Dilby," he said. "Quick question for you, if I may: the
      potion recipes that I've seen have all been designed for small
      batches-a handful of this, a pinch of that. Is there any reason
      they couldn't be scaled up? Could you make a few thousand gallons
      at a time if you multiplied the ingredients but kept the proper
      ratios?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm afraid I don't know," she said. She looked less like a
      nigh-omnipotent defier of common sense and more like a soccer mom:
      comfortably middle aged and a bit stout, her hair still nut brown
      with just a fleck or two of gray, and smile lines etched into her
      face. For whatever reason, she made Ben think of his Nana pulling
      trays of chocolate chip cookies out of the oven.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I explained to the conference organizers that I'm just a
      housewitch," she said. "I did quite well on my N.E. , but I haven't
      done any actual research. They didn't seem to mind, though." She
      thought about it for a moment, then added. "We did make larger or
      smaller batches for the N.E. , actually, although nothing like what
      you're talking about. Still, I can't think of any reason you
      couldn't do it...although what you would want a thousand gallons of
      potion for, I'm not sure. And it would be very expensive; every
      potion depends on some magical ingredient and there aren't that
      many unicorns, dragons, mandrakes, or whatever around."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ben blinked. "So, it's a question of scarcity?" he asked. "If
      you had enough of those ingredients, you could make as much Pepper
      Up or whatever as you wanted?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She nodded. "I expect so. You really should check it with an
      actual potions master though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He smiled and seized her hand, pumping it up and down. "Thank
      you so much, Mrs Dilby. You've been extremely helpful!" With a
      final slightly crazed smile he rushed off, digging his cell out of
      his pocket. as he went.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hi, Dad, listen, are you still on the board of that biotech
      firm? I need to confirm a couple things, but if I'm right there's a
      goldmine just sitting here, and we'll need to move fast before
      someone else grabs it. Get your lawyers on the phone and tell them
      to start prepping some patent forms and option assignments. I'll
      take thirty percent equity and arrange all the necessary personnel
      and resources, in the meantime, tell your team to buy up all the
      cloning equipment they need for mass production of both animals and
      plants."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Damnit," Charles (never 'Chuck', thank you) snarled, throwing
      his pen down in disgust. "The things have cells and there
      <em class="calibre7">is</em> DNA in them, so why can't we get a clean sample?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Try this," Ben said, holding out a tiny bottle full of a golden
      liquid. "It's a potion called Liquid Luck; you take it and
      everything goes right for you. This is enough for twelve hours, but
      be really careful with it; this little bit cost two million
      dollars, it takes six months to make, and there's only one guy who
      can do it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Charles took the flask gingerly and held it up to the light,
      examining it from all angles before poking gently at the glass
      stopper. "If it's this valuable, why in the world were they stupid
      enough to put it in a container shaped like an upside-down
      teardrop?" he asked. "With a stopper that doesn't fit any tighter
      than a perfume bottle?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ben shrugged. "Wizards." It had become the universal answer to
      'why is [stupid thing related to magic] the way it is?'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Charles sighed in disgust. "Any side effects I should know
      about?" he asked. "Steam from the ears, nose hair growing to my
      feet?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ben hesitated. "Slughorn said that it didn't create luck, it
      just concentrated it. However much good luck it gives you, you'll
      have an equal amount of bad luck later, and the bad luck will often
      last longer because it's being pulled from across a long stretch of
      time to concentrate in that one short stretch where you're using
      the potion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Charles frowned. "Hm." He thought about it for a moment, then
      shrugged. Pulling out the stopper, he touched it to his tongue,
      handed it back to Ben, and picked up the deck of cards he kept on
      his desk as a fiddle-toy. Hands moving with practiced ease, he
      shuffled once and then dealt four bridge hands. When he flipped
      them over it was to reveal one hand of spades, one of hearts, one
      of diamonds, and one of clubs. Charles's hand was spades, and in
      all four cases the cards were arranged by number with the high
      cards on the right.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, it works," he said. He gestured at the
      carefully-preserved unicorn tissue samples on the table and said
      "I'm going to wait and see what the fallout is from dealing bridge
      hands before I try to select one group of viable cells from
      billions of non-viable ones."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ben grimaced at the delay, but couldn't argue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Experimental Protocols for Safe Usage of Felix Felicis in
      Cryptozoological Cloning</em> became the most-referenced paper of
      1995. It was sixty-seven pages long, most of it focusing on the
      details of the cloning process. All the bits related to the
      protocols-in other words, the bits that anyone actually cared
      about-could be summed up in a few short lines:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">1. Have an expendable lab assistant drink the stuff; a viable
      blastocyst is not worth a divorce, house fire, car accident, and
      false arrest for pedophilia.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">2. People dying of terminal cancer are a good choice for
      expendable lab assistants; try offering money to their surviving
      family in exchange for their help.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">3. Death row inmates are not a good choice for expendable lab
      assistants.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">4. Ferchrissake, if you absolutely must use death row inmates,
      don't give them more than you absolutely need to; it turns out that
      enough luck causes manacles to fall off and guards to spontaneously
      develop narcolepsy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">5. Whomever you get, train them carefully on what you want them
      to do <em class="calibre7">before</em> you give them the Luck; you want to reduce
      the amount of luck they need so that they can hopefully survive the
      backlash.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">6. Be absolutely certain your expendable lab assistants haven't
      already used the stuff in the past twelve months, as the fallout
      can trash your lab.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">7. Once they've done whatever you needed them for, get them the
      hell out of your lab and don't let them within three kilometers of
      it for at least a fortnight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">8. After using them to succeed at low-probability tasks, tell
      them to buy a ton of lottery tickets in order to bleed off some of
      the bad luck. It probably won't actually save them, but it will
      reduce the collateral damage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone referencing it was doing so for those few lines; the
      fact that Professor Davidson's lab had successfully cloned a
      unicorn was pretty much missed in the furor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a fascinating offer," Slughorn said politely. "However,
      I'm afraid I must decline. Felix Felicis is my most profitable
      product; I'm not interested in ruining my own monopoly"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Elon leaned back in his chair, carefully projecting 'relaxed and
      affable.' "Professor, you haven't heard my offer yet," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm afraid it really doesn't matter," Slughorn said. "I'm
      flattered by your interest, but there's simply nothing that would
      be worth giving up such a valuable sec-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fifty million Galleons," Elon said calmly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slughorn blinked. "I beg your pardon?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm offering you fifty million Galleons," Elon said, leaning
      forward and resting his elbows on his knees. "Twenty thousand just
      for coming down and letting us do the filming, the rest if your
      information allows us to make a successful production batch within
      two years. In addition, I'll throw in one half percent of all net
      proceeds derived from the product for the next ten years. Plus, if
      we succeed in the production batch I'll give you my personal phone
      number and those of Bill Gates, Steve Jobs, and President
      Clinton."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slughorn leaned back in his chair, looking poleaxed. "I...ah…"
      He stopped, took a deep breath, and continued more steadily. "I
      would need appropriate paperwork, of course. And evidence that you
      really can provide what you claim; it seems a bit farfetched."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Elon nodded and reached into his expensive leather briefcase. It
      had cost a month's rent that he couldn't really afford, but it was
      necessary for the illusion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Here you are," he said, handing over a sheaf of paper. "This
      isn't the final contract, just a letter of intent. It simply says
      that, contingent on appropriate legal agreements, you will make a
      good faith effort to help us create a process for the industrial
      production of Felix Felicis in exchange for the remuneration I've
      already mentioned. If you sign it, I'll have a few of my lawyers
      come by in order to work out the details to your satisfaction.
      You'll note that I've already signed; I'm committed to this venture
      if you are."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slughorn picked up the paper, read it carefully, checked to make
      sure that both copies were identical, and then flicked his wand to
      summon an inkwell and quill so that he could scrawl his signature
      at the bottom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excellent," Elon said, collecting one of the copies with
      studied casualness. "I'll have my lawyers owl you some suggested
      times within the next couple of weeks. I look forward to working
      with you, Professor." He shook Slughorn's hand firmly, strode out
      the door, and hopped in the back of the rented limousine.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd have to hurry if he was going to make his plane, and there
      was a lot to do on the way. It was a long flight back to America's
      west coast, but Sand Hill Road was probably the only place he'd be
      able to get his hands on a few million pounds quickly enough to
      live up to his end of the deal. In the meantime, he needed to hire
      some lawyers. And he should probably call Stanford and tell the
      Registrar that he was dropping out. After that he needed to figure
      out how he was going to get personal phone numbers for Steve and
      the two Bills..</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Could you explain that again, please?" Horace said. Ever since
      the Statute of Secrecy had collapsed, he'd been trying to get his
      head around all this Muggle science. Chemistry was fascinating, as
      were physics and mathematics; in preparation for today's experiment
      he'd done enough reading to understand the concept and basic
      mechanisms of video cameras and the other equipment he saw. Despite
      all that, he couldn't for the life of him understand why they
      wanted him to wear something as ridiculous as this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We'd like you to wear this motion capture suit," Susan told
      him, smiling brightly. "It'll allow us to record your movements
      very precisely so that we can study them later."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Susan had been introduced as a 'program manager', but that was
      clearly hogwash. Program manager, as he understood it, was a
      position of responsibility; it was very unlikely that
      a...twenty-one? twenty-two? year old girl would have the job. It
      was even less likely that she'd be doing the job while wearing
      three-inch heels, carefully-applied makeup, perfume, and a labcoat
      with three undone buttons. No, she was clearly a handler here to
      keep him at ease and cooperative.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Non-Slytherins were so cute when they tried to be
      manipulative.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Still, he wasn't complaining; she was easy on the eyes and
      seemed smart enough that she'd be an engaging conversationalist. In
      fact, he was impressed by this whole setup-given that Mr Musk
      wasn't much older than this girl, Horace had been pretty certain
      that he was offering things he couldn't deliver. The fact that he'd
      said his lawyers would owl 'within the next few weeks' was the
      clincher-if Musk really were what he claimed to be, he would have
      been champing at the bit to tie things down as quickly as
      possible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Still, the ability to make Felix in large quantities would be
      priceless beyond measure; it was reasonable to believe that, with
      that letter of intent in hand, Musk would be able to secure the
      funding he needed, so Horace had decided to take a flyer on the
      boy. Sure enough, the paperwork had come through. He'd hired his
      own Muggle solicitors to go over it and they'd assured him that it
      was ironclad, so he'd signed. And here he was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">'Here' was a Muggle chemistry lab, all the equipment removed to
      make room for the dozens of cameras and instruments that were set
      up to record every facet of how he brewed Felix Felicis. When he
      arrived, they'd been finishing their investigation of the cauldron
      that he'd provided; they'd measured its thickness with a
      micrometer, taken multiple samples of the metal, and attached
      sensors all over its surface. The ingredients and tools had
      received similar levels of intent study. And apparently he himself
      would be subjected to equal scrutiny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Horace looked at the skintight green suit with the ping-pong
      balls sewn to it, and then looked at the cameras. With a sigh he
      asked, "Do you have somewhere that I can change?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hi Harry," Aubrey said, glancing up from his microscope as his
      young patron arrived. "I'm sure you're here about the unicorn
      blood, so let me save you the question-bad news first. Unicorn
      blood causes behavior changes, making the mouse alternate randomly
      between aggressive, lethargic, and depressive. It also dies in
      about eighteen hours, but there's no physical cause that we can
      identify. Good news: when we give unicorn blood to a mouse with
      troll blood in its system, the cancer doesn't appear before the
      unicorn blood kills the mouse, but the mouse still retains the
      regeneration effects of the troll blood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm still holding out hope that unicorn blood that wasn't taken
      by force won't have the negative effects. Any luck with the
      Queen?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "Not yet, but I'm still working on it.
      Dumbledore's on my side, and he's trying to convince Hagrid.
      Hagrid's thick as a brick, but he's the best magical-animal handler
      Dumbledore knows of, and he's apparently good with unicorns. If we
      can get him to agree to be the caretaker of the herd and to only
      bring in ones who are willing to give a little blood to help, then
      maybe we can make it work."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay. Well, keep working on it. Let me show you the data, I
      think you'll be interested."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good evening, I'm Peter Jennings and you're watching ABC World
      News Tonight. Tonight's top story: Elon Musk, the world's newest
      and youngest billionaire, has just confirmed success at producing a
      thousand gallons of the 'Liquid Luck' formula.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Liquid Luck, also known as Felix Felicis, provides the user
      with supernaturally good luck for a short time, enabling success in
      very unlikely projects. This is then followed by an equal amount of
      bad luck; the amount of bad luck the user receives after performing
      extremely unlikely scientific procedures is frequently lethal,
      causing a widespread and heated discussion among ethicists and
      lawmakers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Until recently, the formula was considered too advanced to be
      produced by any but Britain's Professor Horace Slughorn, widely
      regarded as the most gifted alchemist in the world. As with most
      advanced alchemical preparations, it's necessary for a wizard to
      use their wand during production; the complex wand movements have,
      until now, been the primary barrier to production by the general
      wizarding population. Last year, Musk patented a process for
      controlling a wizard's hand and arm movements using a robotic
      sleeve. Early this year he successfully applied the process to
      automate the successful brewing of Liquid Luck by any wizarding
      individual, even young school children.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The formula requires six months to brew, but Musk announced
      today that there would be no more for at least two years, as the
      team was forced to use up most of the world's supply of
      commercially available occamy eggs to produce this batch. Occamies
      are a rare and aggressive bird native to India and the Far East,
      and no breeding or conservation program has been successful to
      date. Musk is currently in talks with the Oxford genetics team who
      last year managed to clone a unicorn and successfully bring it to
      term.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"At a press conference earlier today, Musk announced intent to
      begin work on electric cars and inexpensive rockets. When asked why
      such niche fields, Musk replied…."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good news, Aubrey," Harry said with a smile. "I finally got the
      Queen to sign off on a herd of unicorns for experimental purposes.
      Hagrid's out trying to find unicorns who are willing to donate
      blood every fortnight or so in exchange for good care."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Aubrey's smile lit up his aquiline face. "Excellent! Any idea
      when we can get the first samples?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "It depends on Hagrid, really. I had a thought,
      though-you saw that article about how Professor Davidson cloned a
      unicorn, right? Suppose we could get the blood from unborn
      unicorns, early enough that they don't have a fully developed
      brain-if they aren't sentient yet, they can't object and it
      wouldn't hurt them, so would that count as a willing donation? If
      not, maybe we could produce unicorn blood ourselves, from unicorn
      stem cells."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Aubrey raised an eyebrow in interest. "Hm. That's assuming that
      unicorns have stem cells, but the fact that Davidson was able to
      clone them suggests that they do. I'll reach out to him and get his
      thoughts on the idea."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The agoraphobia had only gotten worse as the years went by. At
      the start of each deployment, Joel had taken to burning from NASA
      to a meadow in Tibet so that he could spend a few minutes listening
      to Peri sing before doing the actual spacewalk. When the job was
      done they would burn back to the meadow so that he could calm down
      before going back for the next load. In order to explain the time
      gaps he'd told them that Peri needed some rest between trips when
      they were burning as frequently as this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dad was getting more and more upset as time passed and the panic
      attacks got worse. By now, Joel couldn't sleep through the night on
      his own; unless Peri sang over him all night, he always woke up
      screaming with the merciless emptiness tearing at his nightmares.
      Dad kept wanting to tell the folks at NASA, kept assuring Joel that
      John and Davis and Will and Karen were all good people, that they'd
      understand and get him the help he needed so that he could do the
      missions without the trauma.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Joel had produced the NASA rulebook and put his finger on the
      section that said any astronaut showing signs of agoraphobia was to
      be grounded immediately. Peri had called, wordlessly asking both of
      them if they really meant it, if they believed the reward worth the
      challenge. Both of them had bowed their heads and stepped up to the
      wheel again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My sacrifice is the dreams," Joel had told his father, early
      on. "Your sacrifice is letting me make my sacrifice." It had
      sounded less hokey in his head, but it was heartfelt. His father
      recognized the sincerity in the words and, reluctantly, accepted
      the message.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Today was solar power satellites. The array that he and Peri had
      already put up was beaming down over a gigawatt of power already,
      and Joel was scheduled to put up fifty more satellites in the next
      six months; the thought made him sick, but the idea of a United
      States (and, later, a world) that didn't need to burn coal or
      oil...well, he was feeling too sick to be actually excited about
      it, but it was enough to make him continue "squiring the phoenix",
      as Dad liked to put it. Dad was weird.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, the results came back on the new wand protection gear,
      and it looks like it works," Pat said. "As long as we leave a
      two-millimeter area at the tip of the wand uncovered, the thing can
      be used and will still survive in lunar conditions for at least
      twenty-four hours of constant exposure. Indefinitely, as long as it
      gets a rest in normal conditions every few hours."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wand had been a problem from day one. It obviously couldn't
      be inside a skintight suit and still be used, and it turned out
      that the suit gloves were thick enough that Hermione couldn't use
      the wand while wearing them. They'd removed one glove, put a seal
      around her wrist to maintain suit integrity, and built a hardened
      cylindrical extension around her arm so that she could hold the
      wand inside the extension.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then it turned out that the magic considered "inside a
      full-enclosure suit" to mean "can't effect any spells outside the
      suit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They'd shortened the extension so that the last couple inches of
      the wand were sticking out through a seal. Testing in a
      low-pressure chamber indicated that the seal would hold pressure,
      so they gave it a try. Hermione had bounced up to the moon and done
      a Wand-Lighting Charm-the simplest, fastest spell they could come
      up with-then bounced straight back. After that there had been
      steadily longer trips as they'd experimented with different
      techniques for using magic in space development.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Brooms, it turned out, were way better than lunar rovers or
      bouncing along like the Michelin Man. Hermione hated using brooms
      on Earth, but on the moon she loved it. Falling felt like no danger
      at all in the reduced gravity, and the view across the lunar
      surface and out into space was breathtaking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In all the heady excitement of revolutionizing space travel,
      they'd forgotten to consider the effects of repeated vacuum
      exposure on ten and three quarter inches of vine wood and dragon
      heartstring. The vacuum desiccation of the heartstring had ruined
      the wand and left Her Majesty's Government obliged to shell out ten
      thousand pounds in order to commission a replacement-apparently
      wand-makers did not care to repeat a previous product unless their
      objections were buried under a nice thick layer of Galleons.
      Thereafter, testing had been done with cheap knockoffs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In addition to the wand protection, we've also finished
      production on a new suit," Pat continued. "Which was only necessary
      since Ms Granger has been so inconsiderate as to outgrow yet
      another one." He mock-glared at her, drawing a laugh from everyone
      else at the table.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry, Pat," she said with an unrepentant grin; growing up
      around the Space Agency folks had worn a lot of the nervous
      formality off of her. It was a nice change from the stilted little
      girl who had first walked into his office and nearly killed herself
      with an unscheduled lunar jaunt. "If it's any comfort, Mom says
      I've probably topped out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Speaking of finishing things," Dan said. "The rovers have
      finally finished the survey of the alpha site, and it looks perfect
      for the settlement. The overhang on the cliff is completely solid
      so we don't have to worry about thermal differential causing a
      collapse anytime soon. Calculations show that even on dayside the
      facility will stay in the overhang's shade, so we don't have to
      worry about heat protection.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One minor glitch; In the process of the survey, one of the
      rovers got stuck in a pothole; Hermione, any chance you could run
      up after lunch and pop it loose? Also, the Facilities team is
      anxious to start getting the shelters deployed; we were tentatively
      planning that for next month. Will that work around your
      exams?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She shook her head. "Sorry, Dan, I'm going to be revising that
      entire month, and then Ron and I are going to Italy with my
      parents. We won't be back until after summer hols. Going up after
      lunch is no problem, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not even one little run before the exams?" he wheedled. "Just
      pop up with a team so they can set up a few instrument
      stations…?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ignore him," Pat told her. "Enjoy the holiday. Say hi to your
      folks for me, and tell Ron that if he does anything inappropriate
      I'll drown him in liquid nitrogen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Frank stared, wide-eyed, and then nudged his brother. When Rob
      glanced over, he pointed at the two gorgeous identical twin
      supermodels farther down the bar. "Isn't that Cindy Crawford?" he
      asked. "I didn't know she had a twin. Holy crap, I need to get her
      autograph."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rob glanced over and snorted. "Nah, it's just a couple of
      'Juicers. Don't bother."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Franked stared at him, puzzled. "What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You haven't heard about this?" Rob asked. "Yeah, it's the Big
      New Thing, apparently. A lot of celebs have started selling their
      hair online. You buy some, buy some Polyjuice potion, and boom, you
      can be a movie star for a night. I hear that Harrison Ford hired a
      wizard to use a Hair-Regrowing charm on him so he could shave his
      head eight times a day. There's so many Harrisons walking around
      now that his hair is selling for, like, two bucks an ounce."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh," Frank said. "I don't suppose Richard Dean Anderson is
      selling his, is he?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two weeks after discovering the existence of Juicing, Frank
      received ten strands of Richard Dean Anderson's hair in the mail.
      He had by far the best Jack O'Neill costume at the con.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Three months after discovering the existence of Juicing, Frank
      discovered cross-Juicing. It was eye-opening to see the differences
      in how Frank Thompson, Cindy Crawford, and Fran Drescher were
      treated on the streets of New York. It was another three months
      before he was willing to go home with a guy when he was being
      Cindy, but the experience was even more eye opening. After Cindy
      and Harrison reverted to being Frank and Pat, they spent the rest
      of the night drinking Malbec and talking about what they'd learned
      from their various experiences of cross-Juicing. A year later they
      were married.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It's amazing what can get into peer-reviewed journals. Even more
      amazing is the impact an apparently minor prank can have.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Statistical Correlations between Meyer-Briggs Types and
      Aesthetic Qualities of Polyjuice Potion</em> sounded nice and
      innocuous. Personality types were mostly a curiosity, right?
      Unfortunately, a young undergrad with a sense of humor read the
      paper and posted a parody of it online. Sarah Jaynes assumed that
      <em class="calibre7">Character Analysis by Polyjuice: Honesty, Responsibility, and
      Marital Fidelity as Correlated with Expressed Similarity to
      Snot</em> should have been a completely obvious joke, but her humor
      was a little too deadpan for the mass media. The parody went viral
      and soon it was being discussed on serious news programs. Three
      months later, some corporations were requiring applicants to donate
      hair for a Polyjuice Potion, and then refusing them employment if
      the resulting potion looked, in Sally's words, "like boogers or cat
      puke." It would take eight years for the first lawsuit to reach the
      Supreme Court.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">Author's Note</strong></em><em class="calibre7">: Squiring the
      Phoenix will be moving to a once-every-two-weeks schedule.</em></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
