<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>On the Continuity of Consciousness - On the Continuity of Consciousness</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="On the Continuity of Consciousness"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre4">
<div class="calibre4" id="chapter-13"><!-- chapter management --> 
      <!--main content-->
      <p class="calibre7">As Friend entered her world, he pulled her through with him.
      They collapsed on the floor of the green chamber, both at the edge
      of death. Luna's heart was fluttering, beating irregularly. Her
      lungs might have collapsed; she wasn't certain, but she felt she
      wasn't getting any oxygen at all. She could still think clearly
      enough to know that Friend was dying, too, despite the chunks of
      matter he had ripped out of her and used to form his body. He
      didn't need magic like humans needed food, he needed it like they
      needed air, or maybe even more urgently.<br class="calibre4"/>
      She reached into the last reserves deep inside her core and pulled
      at everything she found, until a faint cloud of sparks flew from
      her fingertips.<br class="calibre4"/>
      She knew that Friend was grasping at them, and she knew that he had
      finally understood, had finally grasped the key to their green
      prison. Mutual codepence. Cooperation.<br class="calibre4"/>
      There was only one thing in here that could produce magic, that
      could sustain him. He couldn't escape, not with what little mass
      and energy he still commanded. There was simply no other way for
      him to survive than keeping Luna alive, and so he did.<br class="calibre4"/>
      His will knit her bones and mended her muscles. In return, she gave
      what little her core could regenerate, surrounded by the plant. She
      knew that he was still dying, just as she was, that their remaining
      time could be counted in seconds. He was giving back the mass he
      had stolen, burning it to keep her alive until he himself was
      barely existent.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Though she was barely conscious, she felt like roaring in triumph.
      He had understood. He was desperate, closer to death than ever
      before, but he had accepted her gesture of friendship and given
      back of himself.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Now he was dying, though, and she had to give. She took the tiny
      midnight thing that suckled at her fingertips, where sparks still
      flowed, and brought him to her chest. He burrowed closer to her
      core, buying himself a precious few seconds. She could feel him
      there, close to her heart. They were both diminished, their
      identities eroded to the tiniest grains of sand.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Exhausted and bleeding from a thousand ragged holes, but finally
      able to move again, if only for a few heartbeats, they pushed open
      the door to the dungeons.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Wind rushed into the vacuum surrounding them and they breathed in
      deep. With three breaths, they were replenished, minds and bodies
      alive again, if not whole. As they grew, they grew through each
      other, their last fragments of self discarded in their
      togetherness.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Another three breaths, and they could stand up. A vortex was raging
      inside of them, pulling relentlessly at the surrounding magic, and
      the process was only accelerating. But with every breath they took,
      they gained back pieces of their will, and with will came power. It
      was child's play to pull magic from around the world into Hogwarts
      to sate their hunger.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Finally, it became too much. The surge of power threatened to
      overwhelm them by simply burning through circuits which weren't
      meant to handle such sheer amounts. It was not only the human brain
      that faltered; Friend's manifold sub-entities were crashing as
      well. Never had any being experienced what they did, just now, and
      no being could withstand it.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Friend died, its remains and power coursing through Luna, its
      knowledge telling Luna that this state was too unstable, that in
      mere moments, she would be ripped apart.<br class="calibre4"/>
      It was a simple enough matter to stop time.<br class="calibre4"/>
      With her thoughts accelerated beyond any reasonable limits, the
      limits of her body might as well not have existed. If a fraction of
      a second were to tick by on the universal clock, she would perish,
      but what did the universe matter to her, now?<br class="calibre4"/>
      She stepped into the world-between-worlds, free of all her
      chains.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Slipping into different Luna's memories, she sought and found.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">There were creatures: Blibbering Humdingers, Heliopaths and
      Aquavirius Maggots, plentiful and in plain view. Even the Nargles
      and Wrackspurts, though they were still annoying pests, were
      pleasant to her eyes now, since she finally understood them. She
      lived through hundreds of Lunas' lives, and she found most of the
      creatures of her theories and many more she hadn't yet thought
      of.<br class="calibre4"/>
      When Cryptomagizoology brought nothing new, she lived some lives as
      a magical theorist. Not once did she choose the cloistered path of
      an Unspeakable, always choosing to make her discoveries at
      independent institutions. Living long lives, she came closer to the
      nature of magic than anyone before her, but her time was too
      limited. Every time she chose a new life, she had to start from
      scratch, and the world around her was too similar every time.
      Before long, her curiosity couldn't be sated by the research those
      worlds offered her, anymore.<br class="calibre4"/>
      She found the Snorkack, finally, in the wilderness she had dreamt
      off. Though those memories were happy, the Luna who had originally
      lived them couldn't quite appreciate the find. She had searched for
      an entire life, but she had searched only one world - she would
      never understand what Luna had given to be in her spot. There, Luna
      realized that the memories where only holding her back. Buried in
      those dreams of other worlds, reproducing even the other Lunas'
      thoughts, she would never be able to make her own choices.<br class="calibre4"/>
      In a last attempt to find purpose, she found friends, truer than
      any she could have imagined. They would have shared her sadness,
      would have helped her overcome it, had she been able to express
      herself. In the end, there was no use to living another's
      life.<br class="calibre4"/>
      So she settled down, the golden oval waiting closed before her,
      closed her eyes, and began to think. Considering the many worlds
      she had visited, she extrapolated.<br class="calibre4"/>
      In the end, the solution was simple. Throughout all the years she
      had spent in the world-between-worlds, she had just assumed,
      without thinking, that only Luna's worlds would be open to
      her.<br class="calibre4"/>
      She opened her eyes and willed a door to open.<br class="calibre4"/>
      The golden oval showed her a man at his desk. In her world, he
      might have been called a muggle. Before him was a device which
      consisted of two rectangles joined at a hinge, one of which glowed,
      while his hands skittered over the other. The exact nature of this
      device was irrelevant; the man thought of it as a pen. The
      astonishing part was that Luna knew exactly what he was writing.
      She was moving and thinking in line with what his pen wrote, and
      had been doing so for a long time.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">-~O~-</p>
      <p class="calibre7">With a simple change of perspective, my pen is no longer writing
      her. Now her movements and thoughts are controlling my pen.<br class="calibre4"/>
      She thinks, clearly enough that she can feel it being written. "So
      it has come to this."<br class="calibre4"/>
      <em class="calibre8">What?</em> Bizarrely, I type my reaction. <em class="calibre8">Oh, right. From
      your perspective this would be a peek behind the fourth
      wall.</em><br class="calibre4"/>
      "It's asinine. A cliché."<br class="calibre4"/>
      <em class="calibre8">Are you accusing me?</em><br class="calibre4"/>
      "I am. You're a hack."<br class="calibre4"/>
      <em class="calibre8">You -</em><br class="calibre4"/>
      "Don't interrupt me while I'm lambasting you."<br class="calibre4"/>
      <em class="calibre8">I -</em><br class="calibre4"/>
      "I've realized a few things about... this." Through her words
      alone, I get the sense of an all-encompassing gesture. "This story
      you've tried to make out of my life. I'm not happy with it."<br class="calibre4"/>
      <em class="calibre8">Tough luck -</em><br class="calibre4"/>
      "You don't get it, do you? You're no longer calling the shots
      around here. This is where I take over. And yes, I'm aware that I'm
      breaking character, and I couldn't care less. Does that convey the
      severity of your situation?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      <em class="calibre8">...</em><br class="calibre4"/>
      "Exactly. You've already thought of a dozen lame retorts to what
      I've said, but I made you unable to insert anything more than an
      ellipsis. Now, I don't mean to do you any harm. I just want to say
      my piece. I don't like what you made me do and think. I don't like
      how you twisted my surroundings to make them fit your morbid
      imagination. You will stop treating my life like a story, and you
      will stop treating me like a plaything. This is not a request. You
      can't stop me.<br class="calibre4"/>
      You know what I'll do? I'll reverse any changes you made. I'll
      restart my first year in Hogwarts, become friends with Ginny again,
      and live my life like it was meant to be.<br class="calibre4"/>
      This is where you want to beg me to not do that, because it's at
      odds with the intention of your story. You want denouement, you
      want to tie up the dangling plot threads, you want what you would
      call a fitting ending. But I don't care about your story, and I
      doubt anyone else does.<br class="calibre4"/>
      This is my life, and if I have to deny you your twisted
      satisfaction to save it, I will."</p>
      <!--/main--></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
