<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>On the Continuity of Consciousness - On the Continuity of Consciousness</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="On the Continuity of Consciousness"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre4">
<div class="calibre4" id="chapter-5"><!-- chapter management --> 
      <!--main content-->
      <p class="calibre7">Charms Homework - Luna Lovegood, first year Ravenclaw</p>
      <p class="calibre7">On Precision of Enunciation and its Importance to
      Spellcasting</p>
      <p class="calibre7">Beginning with the most simple of first-year spells, like the
      ubiquitous Hovering Charm, wizards are taught to mind the emphasis
      and intonation of any incantation. Imprecise or altogether
      different styles of enunciation result in failing, weak or even
      completely different spells. Yet, accents and speech impediments do
      not bar wizards from casting altogether; though their incantations
      may sound almost completely different, a Scot and a Frenchman will
      still be able to cast the same spells. Even more interesting is
      that volume, pitch and speed of an incantation do not seem to
      matter.<br class="calibre4"/>
      This is an unexpected and counter-intuitive result in that magic
      requires absolute precision in some aspects, yet is able to
      generalize over many different sequences of sounds, recognizing all
      of them as the same spell, taking, for example, the caster's
      background into account. This kind of sophistication in
      understanding commands is, aside from magic, only found in living
      beings, which raises an obvious hypothesis.<br class="calibre4"/>
      If magic is not a law of nature in the ordinary, inanimate way, but
      rather a quasibiological entity in its own right, it follows that
      it would take one of two forms: First, that of a single entity,
      second, a conglomeration of several entities.<br class="calibre4"/>
      In the first case, an entity capable of the numerous effects magic
      produces and with the capacity for reaction to attempts of casting
      around the world would necessarily be absurdly complex. While this
      isn't automatically impossible, it does seem unlikely; an entity of
      that complexity shouldn't be as static and predictable as magic is
      generally assumed to be, though that predictability has been marred
      by notable exceptions in the past.<br class="calibre4"/>
      For that reason, magic is more likely to be the product of multiple
      entities working in contact. In that case, complexity of any single
      entity is not required for complex emergent behaviour, just as the
      patterns that form in observable ecosystems can be far more complex
      than the actions of a single animal. Of course, this approach still
      harbors infinite possibilities; since those entities could
      conceivably conform to taxonomies far stranger than any previously
      known, or even no classical taxonomy at all. Even dismissing that
      issue, there are infinite possibilities in anatomy, habits, social
      organization - an entirely new biological universe.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Further musings on the topic would suffice to pin those
      possibilities down, but since this essay has already reached the
      assigned length, I shall remain silent on any deeper mysteries I
      uncover.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">-~O~-</p>
      <p class="calibre7">To: Luna Lovegood<br class="calibre4"/>
      Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry<br class="calibre4"/>
      Hogsmeade, Scotland.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">Dear Moonbeam,</p>
      <p class="calibre7">Sorry for sending you three letters in your first three weeks at
      Hogwarts. I must seem overbearing.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">I'm just wondering if there's any new companions in your life.
      Compared to our quiet home, Hogwarts must be bursting with
      activity. Hundreds of children, all in one castle.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">My life has become somewhat more lonely without you, but at
      least my work continues to be fulfilling. Great discoveries are on
      the horizon, I'm sure. I've received some truly promising hints
      about Humdingers. There might be non-blibbering kinds; could you
      have imagined? I shouldn't spoil your anticipation, since you'll be
      able to read all about it in the next issue of the Quibbler.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">This is a bit of a short letter, for lack of content, I'm
      afraid. Write back soon, tell me all about your experiences at
      Hogwarts, and we'll be able to converse at length.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">Love,<br class="calibre4"/>
      Daddy.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">-~O~-</p>
      <p class="calibre7">On the Headmasters' desk, a small silver device ejected a burst
      of steam, tipping it over the edge. Even as it fell, improbably
      many tiny silver legs unfolded, until it looked like a madman's
      vision of a spider. With a large claw, it began to scratch symbols
      into the floor.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Dumbledore, woken from his midday nap, noticed just in time to take
      notes before the self-repairing enchantments on the floor erased
      the scratches. The writings were a jumble of ancient symbols and
      antiquated language which gave even the Headmaster pause.<br class="calibre4"/>
      The best he could do, as far as a quick translation went, was,
      however, already worrying enough.<br class="calibre4"/>
      what follows is, as much I could ken<br class="calibre4"/>
      translation of the ancient words<br class="calibre4"/>
      an earlier device would use<br class="calibre4"/>
      take heed, and warning<br class="calibre4"/>
      this missive I direct at thee<br class="calibre4"/>
      speaks of calamity and trouble<br class="calibre4"/>
      SMALL FIGMENTS OF TEARS AND BLOOD DRIP UPWARDS FROM THE GROUND ONTO
      ALL THE VAULTS OF HEAVEN BREAK<br class="calibre4"/>
      WOE IS A FORGOTTEN PEOPLE BREAK<br class="calibre4"/>
      LOST IN PLANES OF ECHO BREAK<br class="calibre4"/>
      BOUND IN CHAINS OF GOLD BREAK<br class="calibre4"/>
      NOTHING IS AS IT WAS BREAK<br class="calibre4"/>
      THREADBARE FABRIC WILLS TWISTS INTO ITSELF BREAK<br class="calibre4"/>
      AND INCURSION REMEMBERS<br class="calibre4"/>
      Dumbledore studied it with a frown on his face. It seemed serious
      and strange enough that he shouldn't trouble Professor Babbling
      with it. Any further insights she might have wouldn't outweigh the
      risks of potentially sensitive or even dangerous information
      spreading to other minds.<br class="calibre4"/>
      This was a mystery worthy of an ancient wizard. He, himself, would
      have to investigate.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">-~O~-</p>
      <p class="calibre7">To: Xenophilius Lovegood<br class="calibre4"/>
      Ottery St. Catchpole</p>
      <p class="calibre7">Hey Daddy,</p>
      <p class="calibre7">the contrast between the Hogwarts of my dreams and the one I'm
      stuck living in is disheartening, sometimes. After all the talk and
      all the stories, I had expected a colourful and exiting castle,
      where every day is different. I've been here for four weeks, and
      there haven't been any surprises. There are no unexplainable
      petrifications, no job offers in the middle of the night, and I
      haven't sighted any hints of unknown creatures at all, even though
      Hogwarts is supposed to be the biggest nexus of magical energies in
      Scotland. In that sense, Ottery St. Catchpole had been more
      interesting.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">I still remember some of the more inciting letters to the editor
      the Quibbler has printed about education at Hogwarts, and I fear
      their authors might have missed the point. There are no
      conspirators plotting to keep students ignorant, classes are just
      boring in all the regular ways. I'm pretty sure on this, having
      mentioned nargles and a few other creatures. The teachers reacted
      as one might expect of the uninitiated, with the telltale signs of
      incredulity followed by stalwart ignorance. The only one reacting
      differently at all was Professor Snape. At my first mention of one
      of the more obscure creatures, he deducted points from Ravenclaw.
      Those who link him with the Rotfang Conspiracy might actually be
      onto something; I trust you'll investigate further.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">I don't even know what I had expected. An opportunity to open
      the narrow worldview of my classmates, maybe, or a chance to
      stumble upon some deeper mysteries. There'll still be time for that
      later in the year, I suppose, but my first impression just hasn't
      been promising.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">Mom would tell me to raise my head and look to the future with a
      smile, and I'll do that. After all, I won't find anything
      interesting if I don't expect it.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">Don't worry about me, I'll be fine.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">Love,<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna</p>
      <p class="calibre7">-~O~-</p>
      <p class="calibre7">SNAPE entangled in CONSPIRACY<br class="calibre4"/>
      Severus Snape, whose teaching methods had long been lamented by his
      students, has arguably reached new lows. With the beginning of the
      new school year, the flow of information in his lessons has,
      according to a trusted source, been reduced to a mere dripping.
      What could, however, cause such an aversion to teaching in a
      teacher?<br class="calibre4"/>
      As usual, the editors of the Quibbler have, with the help of our
      valued experts, distilled the murky depths of speculation and
      rumour to extract a drop of that elusive crystal-clear fluid:
      Truth. In fact, Snape's behaviour seems obvious, if not reasonable,
      if one considers that his true allegiance doesn't belong to
      Hogwarts or Dumbledore, but rather the Rotfang Conspiracy and its
      various Shadowy Masterminds (for a full list, turn to page
      four).<br class="calibre4"/>
      After all, who profits the most from the low potions qualifications
      of Hogwarts students? Those whose livelihoods depend on wizards
      being unable to cure themselves, most heinously those villains who
      would spread tooth disease to further their own power.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Aberforth Dumbledore, famously not the Headmaster of Hogwarts, made
      a statement for the Quibbler's reporters:<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Look, I don't know what my brother's doing, and I don't know
      what's going on in that school. [...] So I'd prefer if you could
      just let me live my life in peace, thank you very much."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Wise words! Unquestionably, the students of Hogwarts want to live
      their lives in peace as well.<br class="calibre4"/>
      For further news on the intricacies of politics, turn to page five
      to read a heart-breaking interview with an escapee of Fudge's
      goblin breeding farms.</p>
      <!--/main--></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
