<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>On the Continuity of Consciousness - On the Continuity of Consciousness</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="On the Continuity of Consciousness"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre4">
<div class="calibre4" id="chapter-7"><!-- chapter management --> 
      <!--main content-->
      <p class="calibre7">"So, Miss Lovegood. Word has reached me that you have been
      implicated in a most unfortunate incident." Professor McGonagall's
      crisp Scottish accent harbored tones of reproach. "Some of my
      students told me that you had hexed them in the corridors."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna kept her face expressionless. That came easy to her, since it
      was emoting that really required work.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Miss Lovegood," Professor McGonagall's voice had changed, though
      Luna couldn't really concentrate on deciphering the emotion behind
      it. "You have to talk to me. If I don't get your side of the story,
      it can only end up worse for you."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna still didn't answer. To pass the time, she began to study
      McGonagall's face. The witch seemed older today, somehow. The lines
      in her face had gotten deeper, and her eyebrows were drawn together
      in a way that emphasized them further. Just then, one of her
      eyebrows twitched in a most interesting way that reminded Luna of
      something, but she just didn't know what.<br class="calibre4"/>
      McGonagall spoke again. "I try to go above and beyond my duties in
      teaching here. I try to notice what my students do, when they're in
      my class, what they're talking about and who they're talking to.
      Once I know them better, I can teach better, or at least, that's
      what I hope. I've noticed that you don't talk to anyone, Luna.
      They're all ignoring you, barely two weeks into the school year.
      Once you all get older, there will be a phase when they grow bored
      of ignoring you. Bullying is a terrible thing."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna cocked her head. "Is it, really?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      McGonagall was speechless for a second. "Are you implying that you
      don't think so?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Oh, no. If I thought that, I would have said so. Rather, I wanted
      to ask, since you seemed so certain. Have you ever been bullied?"
      Luna's voice was still conversational, neither apprehensive nor
      taunting. Nonetheless, McGonagall's eyebrows drew together in what
      Luna had learned to recognize as an indignant glare.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Young lady, I don't like your attitude, and it would be wise not
      to talk that way to a teacher!"<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna frowned. She remembered those words from somewhere, but where
      had it been?<br class="calibre4"/>
      When she didn't answer, McGonagall went on. "I expect courtesy and
      obedience from any student, and from you, I expect an apology right
      now."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "I'm sorry," Luna said, with some relief. It was always nice when
      people communicated their expectations clearly. "I should have
      shown courtesy and obedience."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Though Luna hadn't thought it possible, Professor McGonagall's
      eyebrows narrowed even further. Then, she sighed.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "I suppose that is good enough, for now. Let us get back to the
      matter at hand. What, exactly, happened in the corridors this
      afternoon?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna almost smiled. Another clear question that she could easily
      answer. Professor McGonagall might become her favourite teacher at
      this rate. "Oh, classes had already finished, so I was wandering
      around -"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Just wandering around?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      An interruption. Professor McGonagall should care more about her
      possible status as Luna's favourite teacher, Luna thought. "Yes, I
      was taking a walk, it helps me think," she said with great dignity.
      "That day, my thinking began with what we had learned in potions
      class the day before. Professor Snape had told us about the uses of
      animals' brains in Potions, and I had asked if it was possible to
      substitute Aquavirius Maggots, since they look so similar. He had
      seemed somewhat taken aback and deducted five points from
      Ravenclaw, which was an unexpected reaction and therefore ripe in
      potential epiphanies. See, if he had known the answer, he could
      have just told me. I suppose he might not have been willing to
      admit ignorance, but -"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "I am sorry," Professor McGonagall interrupted again, "but is this
      going anywhere?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      Now, Luna was becoming slightly indignant herself. "Well I don't
      know! I didn't manage to finish that train of thought yet, and you
      shouldn't count your Crumple-Horned Snorkacks before you've found
      them. And with the way this day's been going, I won't get to make a
      theory out of this hypothesis today."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "No, I meant if you thought it was relevant to the situation. The
      topic at hand."<br class="calibre4"/>
      When Luna didn't change her dazed expression, Professor McGonagall
      sighed again. Luna was getting the hang of this one, as well. Most
      of the time it was exasperation, though sometimes it happened when
      Professor McGonagall was really surprised at the incompetency of a
      kid in class, and sometimes when she wasn't surprised at all, by
      her own admission. Maybe there were some slight differences between
      those versions of the sigh, and if she trained enough, she could
      even distinguish between them, and know if Professor McGonagall was
      surprised or not before she said it. That might be really
      useful.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Miss Lovegood, are you even listening to me?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Now I am."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Professor McGonagall sighed again, and this time it was probably
      the unsurprised one. "I will make this short and clear, then, for
      the sake of my sanity. Do you remember coming upon Derrick Boyle
      and Timothy Harris in the corridors today?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Yes, I bumped into one of them just when I had been so close to a
      proof for Professor Snape's implication in the Rotfang
      conspiracy."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Thank you, Miss Lovegood, but could you please leave out any
      details about what was going on in your head? Now," she continued,
      without leaving Luna an opportunity to answer, "did you cast a hex
      on any of them?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "No, I didn't."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Professor McGonagall raised an eyebrow. "Are you sure? They report
      seeing something rather strange and frightening which you were
      using to threaten them."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Well, I can't really talk about whether I'm sure or not if I'm not
      allowed to talk about what's going on in my head, aren't I?
      Actually, I couldn't even talk about what happened, since I would
      really be only talking about my perceptions of -" Luna abruptly
      fell silent as she realised the implications. If she couldn't talk
      about anything in her head, she really shouldn't vocalize her
      thoughts, which meant not talking at all.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Professor McGonagall looked puzzled for a moment, which was an
      expression Luna always liked, since it reflected how she felt in
      most conversations. Then, a flicker of understanding lit up her
      features. Luna liked that one as well, though more on principle
      than anything, since she could never adequately share other
      people's epiphanies.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Miss Lovegood, you can talk about things in your head, but please
      try to keep your answers reasonably short. Now, let's try again. If
      you didn't cast a hex, how would you explain what Mr. Boyle and Mr.
      Harris saw?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "I don't know. It might have been a distortion in the air, or
      someone else's spell, or a trick of the light. Maybe swamp
      gas."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Swamp gas? I didn't know that we had a swamp in any of the
      corridors."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna wanted to tell her that there would be one, some day, but she
      didn't think she should.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Nevermind, this clearly isn't working." Professor McGonagall
      folded her hands together and closed her eyes. After a minute, she
      spoke again. "I will give you one last chance, Miss Lovegood. Tell
      me what happened between you, Derrick Boyle and Timothy Harris
      today, while leaving out any facts, theories or hypotheses which
      aren't directly relevant to the aforementioned events."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna thought about it for a second, then she told her story. It
      wasn't such a big deal, anyway. She had bumped into the other two
      first-years, and they had had a problem with that, which had
      somehow escalated into them pushing her around until they had
      turned around and ran away. She didn't tell anything about the
      scratching noises she had heard, or that she had heard them before.
      She also didn't mention anything at all about her mother, since
      that didn't seem directly relevant.<br class="calibre4"/>
      When she had finished, Professor McGonagall nodded once, and sent
      her off to dinner. Luna was happy enough with the course of the
      conversation; she had learned interesting things about the
      conversational signals Professor McGonagall used, and she was
      pretty sure that Professor McGonagall wasn't part of the Rotfang
      Conspiracy, since she had reacted to her theories with the telltale
      indifference of the uninitiated. When Luna took the steps down to
      the great hall, she was humming happily.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">Minerva McGonagall sat at her desk, more than ready for the day
      to end. If someone had asked her which students caused the most
      trouble, she wouldn't have said Gryffindors, or even Slytherins.
      No, it was Ravenclaws. They were so convinced of their own
      cleverness that a week didn't pass without a Ravenclaw thinking he
      had found a loophole in the school rules, or contradicting her in
      class because he had theories about transfiguration.<br class="calibre4"/>
      And that was the amount of frustration they caused when they were
      just insufferably smart-alecky. Once or twice a decade, however,
      some Ravenclaw turned up who was just too odd for the normal rules
      to apply to them. It was always a hassle trying to work with them,
      since no amount of punishment or reward could discipline them; they
      just stayed as they were.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna Lovegood, however, was extraordinary even among those
      students. In fact, she was extraordinary enough that it might be
      prudent to check...<br class="calibre4"/>
      Minerva McGonagall coughed. "Albus?" For a moment she hoped that
      the name would just echo around her empty office, but then, a
      candle began to swell, growing in length and width until it
      resolved into the wisest and least dignified wizard alive. Albus
      hopped down from the candlestick and dusted off his robes.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Why, my transfiguration skills must be growing rusty if you could
      detect me."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Minerva sighed, and Luna would have recognized it as the
      unsurprised sort. "I just assumed that a first-year that peculiar
      would stimulate your interest. I was right, it seems."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Yes, yes indeed! Most capable, Minerva. So, what do you think
      about the Lovegood girl?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "She hasn't hexed Boyle and Harris, that much is clear. She must
      have done something else, though, if they really were pushing her
      around, they weren't likely to just stop. Also, they were scared
      witless when they came to me. It's clear that they have seen
      something."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Albus smiled. "Ah, I'm not interested in the scuffle in the
      corridor. What did do you think of the girl herself?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "She certainly is unique. I had to use a level of semantic
      precision I usually reserve for Ravenclaws of year three and above,
      but her methods of evasion were unlike those of her housemates."
      She hesitated, then spoke a bit softer. "I had heard of her
      mother's death, but with that sort of trauma, I had expected
      someone sullen and moody, or even a completely withdrawn girl, not
      this sort of ... quirkyness."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Exactly, Minerva! Luna is most interesting. She could be the most
      talented natural Occlumens in the history of wizardkind. Mind you,
      it wasn't hard to get into her mind at all, but I was hopelessly
      lost the entire time I was in there. A fascinating maze, filled
      with all manners of curios and distractions, which is only fitting
      for someone so curious and easily distracted."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Minerva sat bolt upright, and her voice was quiet and measured.
      "Are you serious, Albus? You violated a traumatized child's mental
      privacy over a scuffle between students?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      Albus turned toward her, and shook his head gravely. "Do you really
      believe me to be so frivolous? I know that a mind should not be
      breached at a moment's notice. The situation was truly dangerous,
      however, and I needed to find out what I could."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Minerva frowned. "You know I trust you, Albus," though it was hard,
      sometimes. "What happened today that was truly dangerous?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "If Luna didn't cast a spell, what exactly happened in that
      corridor? Derrick and Timothy have never been susceptible to
      hallucinations. It can't have been accidental magic, since it's
      almost unheard of in the halls of Hogwarts. There's two options:
      The first is that some other entity cast an illusion, most likely
      another student who was sympathetic to the plight of an ostracized
      first-year girl. If we consider the nature of the image that was
      conjured, that other student must have had access to the very wrong
      kind of books." Albus shot Minerva a significant glance, which she
      completely failed to understand.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "The dark arts? What Boyle and Harris described sounded like the
      ravings of a madman!"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "And if there's one thing worse than a dark wizard, it's a
      thoroughly insane one, or at least that's what everyone tells me.
      Yet the second option is far worse. If the thing in that corridor
      wasn't an illusion, it was real."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Minerva wasn't always sure if Albus was serious or joking. In some
      cases, she hadn't known until years later. This time, however, the
      joke was too bad to be anything else. "Be serious, Albus."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Oh, I am entirely serious. There are still magical beasts we don't
      know anything of, and you know Xenophilius' taste for the unusual.
      What if he has acquired something truly strange, and it has
      followed his daughter to school?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "The wards should have - "<br class="calibre4"/>
      "The wards are a thousand years old, and all that talk of 'magics
      most ancient' barely serves to distract from the fact that they are
      horribly outdated. If a creature we don't know anything about is
      loose in Hogwarts, it falls to us to contain it, not to convince
      ourselves that it isn't there."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "I agree." Minerva's voice hadn't been this calm and professional
      at any point of the evening. "What do we do?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "You should probably give Derrick and Timothy a stern warning for
      their behaviour towards Luna, and keep an eye out for her
      well-being. I'll take care of everything else." With that, Fawkes
      landed on Albus' shoulder, they both went up in flame and were gone
      from her office.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Minerva allowed herself one last sigh for the evening. It couldn't
      be healthy for her to be sighing this much.</p>
      <!--/main--></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
