<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>37. How HPMoR Should Have Ended - How HPMoR Should Have Ended Chapter 2, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="37. How HPMoR Should Have Ended"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 2</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">A clearing in an unspecified, uninhabited location. Two boys,
      one woman. And an unconscious mountain troll.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lesath Lestrange was speaking an eldritch chant. He had
      carefully memorized it, after studying with the help of a pensieve
      a memory of Voldemort performing a certain ritual. The memory
      belonged to Tom Riddle, known to the world as Harry Potter, who was
      the other person currently in the clearing. Tom/Harry wasn't
      performing the ritual himself, because he had no idea if it was
      allowed for the recipient to do so. Voldemort had only done it for
      Hermione...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lesath finished speaking, and the mountain troll crumbled in on
      itself, becoming ashes hanging in the air, then dust.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom had felt nothing. Anticlimactic, but the Stone and the
      Mirror had taught him to expect as much.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did it work, my Lord?" asked Lesath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's find out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom took a sterile needle from Lesath, unwrapped it, and pricked
      himself on the arm. The wound closed immediately. First test
      passed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom nodded at Lesath, who took out his wand and aimed it at
      Tom's arm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Softly, his voice trembling a little in awe at this apparent
      show of trust (exactly as Tom expected, wasn't Legilimency
      wonderful), the boy spoke.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Diffindo".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ouch", said the other boy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In a moment, that wound closed as well. Tom smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The survival of the world required a live Harry Potter.
      Preferably, a Harry Potter as close to invincibility as possible,
      and without all the trouble that would arise from certain people
      learning that he had inherited Voldemort's network of
      horcruxes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lesath returned the smile, though it was a pale one. He knew he
      wouldn't be allowed to remember the details of this adventure, but
      he'd remember <em class="calibre7">how it felt</em>, and Lord Potter would let him
      know that he'd performed a useful service. This had happened once
      before, on the day when Hermione Granger came back to life, and
      they both expected it would happen again in the future.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix' role was to provide high level protection, standing
      guard at the edge of the temporary wards they'd set up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom wondered briefly how long he had before the trainwreck that
      was Hermione Granger was done hunting down the Dementors that
      escaped the Azkaban purge. He wasn't fully reassured either by
      Hermione's loyalty vow, or by what remained of their friendship,
      and his own Vow required Hermione's cooperation for his research to
      progress. It didn't have to be willing cooperation... But even the
      Elder Wand only gave Tom so much advantage against someone with the
      agility and speed of a unicorn on top of a troll's strength and
      resilience. And there were so many other potential threats that
      could extinguish his life. A troll's regeneration would help, but
      not guarantee invincibility.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At least he was immortal. Still, he'd probably need to reinvent
      the damned thing yet again, because Voldemort hadn't gotten all the
      kinks out of his "great creation". Such as requiring a human death.
      Or, more to the point, not protecting the user against what Harry
      Potter had done to him. If you're going to make backups of
      yourself, do it right, and don't set the system to a two-way
      synchronisation without failsafes...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Still, there was time, and the troll had only been Step One.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Knowing that he had hours to return to the Stone of Permanency
      to make his new acquisition permanent, Tom took a moment to look up
      at the stars.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They were shining brightly and steadily. Not wholly above the
      folly of men, perhaps, but still...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There had been a prophecy that Tom must not look at prophecies.
      But Dumbledore had said nothing that forbade acquiring the powers
      of a centaur. Those weren't prophecies; whatever centaurs saw in
      the projection of their powers upon the starry night never got
      recorded in the Hall. Tom still hadn't decided if murdering a
      centaur for their natural powers of Divination was going to be Step
      Two.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Would doing so help with not-destroying the world? Or would
      becoming a centaur violate the spirit of the prohibition on
      prophecies, and somehow cause problems he would have avoided if he
      only agreed to keep groping around blindly for the path towards an
      acceptable future? His Vow was silent on the matter, and if that
      remained true by the time Tom finished his planned research into
      the subject, that would mean anything went.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Tom <em class="calibre7">hated</em> groping around blindly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At least he'd put the centaurs' powers to better use than the
      original owner. He wouldn't adopt their fatalistic attitude that
      forbade interfering with fate. What was the point of acquiring
      foresight, if you still refused to steer away from a course that
      you could see in advance ended on the rocks? But if you had never
      questioned how your own powers worked, and thought that you really
      were getting your predictions from the stars, whose movements
      wouldn't be affected by anything done by the little creatures on
      one dusty planet, perhaps it was easy to believe that the job of
      the seer was to merely accept.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So that would be Step Two. Maybe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">However, what Tom really needed a good, clever plan for what
      currently looked like Step Three, in his
      let's-kill-things-for-their-powers subplan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a masterless phoenix somewhere out in the world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now that would not be easy.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
