<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>16. Depart Azkaban - Depart Azkaban Chapter 11: Reacquaintance, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="16. Depart Azkaban"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s11" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 11: Reacquaintance</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Note:</strong> Here's the chapter as promised,
      but after this it'll be monthly updates. I've discovered that I
      can't maintain the fortnightly schedule for three stories while
      working full-time - I think it's affecting the quality of the
      stories (not to mention the quality of my life), and I'm not
      willing to do that. Monthly should mean I can write longer and
      better-polished chapters. Anyway, next chapter after this will be
      up on July 1.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The moment Harry and Hermione arrived in the Great Hall with
      Bentham, they were met by Professor Quirrell. Inclining his head
      slightly, he addressed Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Miss Granger, might I have a moment of your boyfriend's
      time?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This left Hermione flustered for a number of reasons, not all of
      them anticipated by Quirrell, but Harry intervened before she could
      gather her wits enough to say anything at all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm afraid that's not going to happen, Professor Quirrell. Put
      simply, right now I'm not letting Hermione out of my sight for any
      reason. I very nearly lost her today, and I'm finally taking
      security seriously."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell raised an eyebrow. "Really, Mr Potter? You believe
      yourself so much more capable than Miss Granger, that your mere
      presence within sight of her is both necessary and sufficient for
      her safety? I fear you are forgetting your lessons."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry flinched, he couldn't help that, but he had expected this.
      He paused for a moment, face carefully neutral as he considered his
      response.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do have weaknesses, Professor - everyone has weaknesses, I
      haven't forgotten that. I do think Hermione's a lot safer with me
      than on her own, though, partly because I lack some of her
      weaknesses and partly because most dangers are a lot less severe
      for two people working together than for one person working alone.
      It goes the other way too, don't forget - I know that I've just
      painted a big target on myself by what I did today, and I think I'm
      much safer with Hermione than on my own."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And in that, Mr Potter, you most definitely have not learned
      the larger lesson. While I intend no disrespect to Miss Granger's
      school performance, nor even to her performance as a general, she
      is now unquestionably a liability to you. Your enemies can now hurt
      you by hurting her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shoved his temper back down, still keeping his face
      carefully neutral. This was a crucial contest, and he couldn't
      afford to lose.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"With respect, sir, that was already the case. I am not now
      choosing for Hermione's well-being to affect my own - in reality,
      I'm just finally taking appropriate steps in response to that
      admitted vulnerability. Honestly sir, after today's Wizengamot
      session, isn't it painfully obvious to everyone how much Hermione
      matters to me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ice-blue eyes met furious green.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That, Mr Potter, is precisely my point. You have acknowledged a
      weakness, and yet your only response is to raise the stakes without
      adding more than token safeguards. You are not thinking clearly, Mr
      Potter, and your sentimental foolishness will inevitably cost you a
      great deal. When it does, do not say that I did not warn you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "Your argument is not new to me, Professor. I
      disagree, as you are well aware. Now, what did you want to talk
      about? Hermione already knows what happened today, so there
      shouldn't be anything that she shouldn't hear."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry noticed a brief flicker in Quirrell's mask in response to
      that, a fleeting glance towards Hermione. Oops. A moment later,
      Quirrell turned to address Hermione. His eyes met hers earnestly,
      but then he flinched involuntarily before he could even start to
      speak. An awkward silence fell, as all three of them rapidly
      considered their options. Harry spoke first, outrage perfectly
      clear in the tone and volume of his voice. This needed to be
      overheard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What the hell do you think you're doing, Professor Quirrell?
      You just tried to rape my friend's mind! Did you really think you
      could get away with that? That we wouldn't notice, or that we
      wouldn't do anything about it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell replied more quietly, though still loudly enough for a
      few nearby people to hear. "This is not a discussion for the Great
      Hall, Mr Potter. Shall we move it to my office? I can have food
      sent."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head furiously. Knowing that almost the entire
      Hall would be staring at him by now, he quickly summoned Dumbledore
      and McGonagall with a glance and a gesture. As he turned back to
      Quirrell, he noted fleetingly (and with considerable relief) that
      Professor Flitwick was already striding towards him. Taking a deep
      breath, Harry once more addressed Quirrell and the Hall at
      large.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, Professor Quirrell. This is not a discussion for closed
      doors and political bargaining. It has to be public."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At this point Professor Flitwick arrived, wand drawn but not
      aimed. His voice rang out high and clear, with no trace of its
      usual self-deprecating jollity.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's the problem, Mr Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry, wand likewise in hand and voice practically a snarl,
      answered Flitwick without taking his eyes off Quirrell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre9">Professor</em> Quirrell here just attempted Legilimency on
      Hermione."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The tiny Charms professor showed the sheer shock of it, but even
      as he flinched he was suddenly pointing his wand at Quirrell.
      Dumbledore and McGonagall, arriving at this point, followed his
      example. They both kept their eyes and wands on Quirrell as
      Dumbledore addressed Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry carefully softened his voice. "He tried to read Hermione's
      mind, Headmaster."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmaster wasn't particularly shocked by this, of course,
      knowing that Severus Snape had been doing the same thing to many
      students for years. On the other hand, he knew how Harry felt about
      the practice, and he also knew the law. It was a bit early in the
      year to be losing the Defence Professor already, especially such an
      extraordinarily competent one, but Harry's obvious fury made the
      choice a simple one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Would you like me to call the Aurors back, Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Regret was clear on Harry's face, but he nodded without
      hesitation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes please, Headmaster."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell twirled his wand nonchalantly, a mocking smile on his
      face. "Am I to be arrested again so soon, then, and on the word of
      a child?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore was busy sending his Patronus to fetch the Aurors, so
      it was McGonagall who answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Quirinus. I'm afraid you are. While we cannot prove your
      involvement in the incident involving Miss Granger and Mr Malfoy,
      we certainly can do something about your attempt to Legilimise Miss
      Granger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He spread his hands. "What evidence have you seen, other than Mr
      Potter's bare accusation? Is it not more plausible that Mr Potter
      is merely looking for a villain to explain away his girlfriend's
      misdeeds, and has settled on me as an easy target? The accusation
      itself is hardly plausible, in any case - even if I had attempted
      to access Miss Granger's mind, how exactly could these children
      have detected and correctly identified the attempt?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Flitwick stepped forward half a pace, wand still steadily aimed
      at the centre of Quirrell's chest. "The details can wait until the
      Aurors arrive, but I vouch for their abilities in this regard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell's face became a blank mask of concentration, his body a
      coiled spring. His wand was now firmly in hand. Flitwick began to
      drift around to Quirrell's right, and McGonagall to his left. Both
      looked tense and more than a little nervous, but their wands
      remained aimed and ready as they moved. Harry quietly slipped
      behind Dumbledore and backed away a half-dozen paces, pulling
      Hermione with him. If this became a fight, it would be far above
      their level - they would be liabilities, plain and simple. He
      exchanged a glance and a nod with Bentham on his shoulder, but
      raised his strongest shield regardless - it might buy them a vital
      split-second, if the situation went badly. Hermione held his hand
      tightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Elsewhere in the Hall, the more intelligent prefects were
      quietly herding students away from the developing
      confrontation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The silence held.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">It was to this silence that the Auror trio returned, slipping
      quietly into the Hall. They took in the situation at a glance;
      Komodo made a quick gesture as he entered, and Butnaru and Goryanof
      drifted away either side of him as the three rapidly closed the
      distance to the looming conflict. Only when they were in position
      around Quirrell, forming a second ring in the gaps left by the
      professors, did Komodo finally speak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's the allegation, and what's the evidence?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The professors glanced at each other, wondering who should
      speak, but Harry spoke up first.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Attempted Legilimency on Hermione Granger, right here in the
      Great Hall. The immediate evidence is my word and Hermione's, but
      we'll have plenty more for when it goes to trial."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Auror Komodo glanced at Albus Dumbledore. "Do you vouch for this
      accusation, Chief Warlock?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore nodded, never taking his eyes off Quirrell. "I do,
      Auror Komodo. I have never yet known Harry Potter to tell a lie,
      and the mere idea of Hermione Granger doing so is absurd. If they
      both say that Quirinus Quirrell attempted Legilimency upon Miss
      Granger, then Quirinus Quirrell attempted Legilimency upon Miss
      Granger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Komodo nodded grimly. "Thank you, sir. Quirinus Quirrell, you
      are under arrest for attempted Legilimency against Hermione
      Granger. Drop your wand and place your hands on your head."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell sank smoothly into a crouch, all cold precision and
      tight-leashed power. Behind him Professor Flitwick exchanged
      glances with Aurors Butnaru and and Goryanoff, and Butnaru began to
      count down silently on his fingers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Suddenly Quirrell exploded into action, a highly choreographed
      dance performed at lightning speed. He turned fractionally,
      silently throwing out a rapidly-expanding bludgeoning shield in all
      directions. In the split-second that this bought him, he leapt
      towards Minerva McGonagall. An unidentified spell fired behind him
      sent him flying over her head, and a rapid-fire stream of simple
      bludgeoners sent her to her knees as he flew overhead. He landed
      and rolled, flying out of the roll even faster than he had entered
      it. His wand was now flickering in his hand, scattering a hail of
      curses around the Hall as he dodged or deflected the few spells
      that his pursuers managed to fire, and he was running far faster
      than any human body could manage without magical help. The ancient
      double doors were shut and locked - Komodo was no fool - but with a
      twitch of Quirrell's wand they blew away in a cloud of
      splinters.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The massive front doors, closed but not locked, fared no better
      a few seconds later. As those once-mighty slabs left the castle as
      a shock-wave of debris, Quirrell scattered curses into the
      stonework above the gaping hole they left behind. He crossed the
      threshold horizontal and still accelerating, clearing it less than
      a second before the first massive stone smashed down onto the
      flagstones. Beyond that he was simply gone, obscured and protected
      from his pursuers by a cascade of collapsing masonry and a choking
      cloud of dust.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
