<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>16. Depart Azkaban - Depart Azkaban Chapter 4: Dumbledore, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="16. Depart Azkaban"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s4" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 4: Dumbledore</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Harry paused just short of the gargoyles outside Dumbledore's
      office, and turned to Minerva and Filius. "We need the Headmaster's
      help with the upgraded security for the school in general, but
      could we not mention the precautions we're planning for me and my
      friends in particular? Actually, could we present the school-wide
      security upgrade as something that the three of us worked out
      together after I said I didn't think the castle was safe enough?
      That's technically true, and it might save us a lot of
      trouble."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a long pause, and then a reluctant-seeming nod from
      Minerva. Harry and Minerva both turned to Filius, who still seemed
      to be arguing with himself, and waited.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Finally, Filius looked up at them. "I'm sorry, Harry. I
      understand your reasons, but I will not deliberately mislead the
      Headmaster without far better reason than this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry paused for a moment, and then nodded. "I understand,
      Professor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva approached one of the gargoyles and murmured a password,
      and the three ascended the rotating spiral staircase. The ancient
      wooden door swung open as they reached it, revealing a
      worried-looking Albus Dumbledore sitting behind his desk. He
      beckoned them in, but gave no smile or word of greeting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Filius broke the silence. "Headmaster, we have some suggestions
      for improving Hogwarts' security."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus Dumbledore smoothed his face and turned his gaze upon
      Filius Flitwick. When he spoke, his voice was without affect. "I
      believe I made a mistake today, Filius. I allowed a child to take
      up an adult's mantle, and to assume more power than any child
      should wield."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The three of them stared at the old man, completely lost for
      words. After a few seconds, Minerva took over. "Albus, the safety
      of our students is my responsibility as well as yours. Mr Potter's
      new status is a different question entirely - we have a duty to
      keep our students as safe as we reasonably can, and that duty does
      not depend on whether Mr Potter is a child or an adult."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus smiled, eyes twinkling. "Priorities, Minerva, priorities.
      This young man shakes the very foundations of Magical Britain, and
      I must deal with that before I concern myself with schoolboy
      scuffles."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She stared at him. "Albus, these are children's lives in our
      hands! If you are unwilling or unable to carry out your obligations
      as keeper of the wards, then you must delegate that task to myself
      and Filius! I mean no disrespect, of course, and I understand that
      you have other responsibilities to consider. But Albus, at least
      allow us to fulfil these obligations on your behalf."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus still looked faintly amused. "As you say, Minerva, I am
      responsible for the safety of our students. I trust the current
      security because I personally know how it works. If I were to allow
      anyone else to tamper with those protections, then I could no
      longer personally guarantee the safety of Hogwarts. I shall
      consider your suggestions in due course, but they must wait until I
      have leisure to do so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva visibly calmed herself, still staring incredulously at
      her old friend. "Albus, Mr Malfoy nearly <em class="calibre9">died</em>. As far as
      we know he would indeed have died, were it not for the protection
      which Professor Quirrell had laid upon him - protection in addition
      to the security which you insist is completely reliable. Miss
      Granger and her friends would have been grievously injured, and
      possibly even killed outright, were it not for the actions of that
      same Professor Quirrell. The Defence Professor, Albus. The Defence
      Professor. How safe is Hogwarts, really?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore sighed. "It all comes back to Harry, doesn't it? His
      pet gang, his two best friends, and of course his mentor. I'm
      sorry, Minerva, but it is clear to me that you lack perspective in
      this matter. For now you must simply trust me, I'm afraid - it will
      become clearer to you in time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Filius spoke up, his high-pitched voice perfectly steady. "Do I
      lack perspective also, Headmaster?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus raised his eyebrows. "I can only judge you on your
      opinions, Filius. If you agree with Minerva when her judgement is
      thus clouded by sentiment, then I must conclude that your judgement
      is similarly clouded."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Filius goggled in silence, Harry spoke up. "Headmaster, you
      once sought my advice on a matter of Hogwarts security. I believe
      that my opinion should therefore carry some weight in your
      considerations, but I have a more fundamental question for you.
      What exactly would it take to change your mind on this particular
      point?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore stared at Harry. "I'm afraid I do not understand the
      question. Why should I tell you how to change my mind, if indeed
      such a thing is possible?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a basic test of rationality, Headmaster - falsifiability.
      If a belief is founded on appropriate evidence, then you should be
      able to give at least one example of counter-evidence which would,
      hypothetically, falsify your belief. The great biologist J.B.S.
      Haldane, for instance, when asked this exact question in relation
      to the theory of evolution, cited fossil rabbits in the
      pre-Cambrian. There are no such things, of course, but if there
      were then they would in fact be sufficient evidence to falsify the
      basic theory of evolution. In the same way, you should be able to
      give some example of evidence which would change your mind. If you
      can't, then you're effectively conceding that your belief is
      irrational."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what of your conviction that Miss Granger is a good person,
      Harry? Is that falsifiable?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course. Prove to me that Hermione has done something morally
      repugnant, like for instance torturing innocent children, and I'll
      abandon that belief. Can you tell us some form of evidence which
      would persuade you that Professor McGonagall is not in fact
      intellectually crippled by her emotions?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have lived a long time, Harry Potter, and I have learned a
      great deal. I do not believe that I am capable of explaining this
      to you in a way that you would find convincing. I do not believe
      that you are capable of understanding. Perhaps when you are
      older."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Apparently it was possible to be angry despite the peace of the
      phoenix. Harry reined in his temper, refusing to be played.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Headmaster, you declined to allow upgrading of the wards, on
      the grounds that you would then be unable to personally guarantee
      the safety of Hogwarts. Can you offer that guarantee in the present
      circumstances?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore nodded calmly. "Of course I can. Hogwarts is the
      safest place in the world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Headmaster, may I remind you that Draco Malfoy very nearly died
      last night? That Hermione Granger, an innocent girl, was framed for
      the attempted murder? Frankly, my Muggle parents' house is safer
      than Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus Dumbledore looked hurt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My dear boy, you know not whereof you speak. Your aunt and
      uncle's house is in fact a good deal safer than you might think,
      but even those wards cannot compare to the defences of this castle.
      I know you're upset, Harry, but what happened last night, whatever
      it was, was a freak occurrence. It could just as easily have
      happened anywhere."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Headmaster, calling something a 'freak occurrence' doesn't make
      it go away. Had our improvements been in place already, last
      night's events would have proceeded very differently. And today's,
      for that matter. There are millions of different 'freak
      occurrences' that might possibly happen, so the probability of at
      least one of them happening is worth considering. If we care at all
      about the safety of this castle's residents, we must improve
      security enough to make at least most of these 'freak occurrences'
      survivable. Why exactly are you opposing this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old man stood abruptly and strode towards Harry, anger clear
      in every movement. "You would lecture me on responsibility, Harry?
      You should know better."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stepped backwards and turned his gaze to Fawkes, sitting
      quietly on his perch. "Fawkes, can you scream at Dumbledore for me?
      Or hit him, or something?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fawkes shimmered across the room to fly around Dumbledore's
      head, screaming and batting him with wingtips. Bentham was only a
      split-second behind, and Albus shrank back before the onslaught of
      the two phoenixes. The two birds settled on Harry's shoulders as
      Dumbledore straightened once more. Dumbledore opened his mouth, but
      Harry spoke first, holding up his hand for silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor Dumbledore, your true reason for opposing this is
      that you think it would somehow make me more powerful, and you're
      convinced that I'm going Dark because of power. I would like to
      point out that I now have far more power than what you were afraid
      of last time you expressed those fears to me. Do you believe that I
      am already somewhat Dark?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus bowed his head. "Yes. I do believe it, and for my own part
      in that I am sorrier than you could imagine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled faintly. "If I'm half-Dark and you're trying your
      best to save me, then why exactly has your phoenix taken my side so
      thoroughly as to actually reprimand you? How could I possibly be
      Dark, with a phoenix on either shoulder? I know the wizarding world
      as a whole refuses to acknowledge phoenixes as evidence of
      goodness, but you have your own phoenix - you should know what it
      means."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus shook his head sadly. "We've spoken of this before, young
      man. A phoenix knows only the battle, and cannot fathom how winning
      the battle might lose the war. The same, evidently, is true of you
      also. You lack life experience, Harry. You lack wisdom."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do Professor McGonagall and Professor Flitwick also lack life
      experience, Headmaster? Do they also lack wisdom, contrary to the
      trust which you place in them as Heads of House? You are unmoved by
      the consensus of myself, two Heads of House, and two phoenixes
      (including your own). What more do you want, in order to consider
      the possibility that the great Albus Dumbledore might have made a
      mistake? Should I fetch a centaur or a seer?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore did wince at that, but his voice remained calm. "If
      you are trying to hurt my feelings, Harry, then you have succeeded
      once more."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva spoke, quietly. "Will nothing move you, Albus? Does our
      counsel truly count for so little now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He sighed. "I truly am sorry, Minerva, but you refuse to
      comprehend the true danger here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She gazed at him for a moment, and then turned away. The five of
      them left together in silence - two Heads of House, two phoenixes,
      and Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
