<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>16. Depart Azkaban - Depart Azkaban Chapter 5: Transfiguration, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="16. Depart Azkaban"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s5" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 5: Transfiguration</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">As the gargoyles settled back into stony immobility, Minerva
      turned to Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We shall discuss this further at a later time, Mr Potter. Right
      now, you and I have a Transfiguration class to attend."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She turned. "Filius, can we count on your assistance?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The tiny man nodded. "Of course, Minerva."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He turned and walked away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Professor McGonagall hurried towards the
      Transfiguration classroom, Fawkes and Bentham retaining their
      positions on Harry's shoulders. Professor McGonagall spoke
      first.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Will you oppose the Headmaster directly, Mr Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's certainly a possibility now, Professor. I honestly wish
      I didn't have to, but I may not have a choice. The Headmaster is
      willing to let the good guys lose a lot more than I can tolerate,
      and in this instance he doesn't seem to be aware of the dangers to
      begin with. Heroic responsibility, you understand – children will
      suffer and die if I don't do something, and it would be my
      fault."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I understand. Be careful, Mr Potter, and good luck."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, Professor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They walked the rest of the way in thoughtful silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They entered the room to find it deathly silent. Harry quietly
      dropped into a spare seat at the back of the room, while Professor
      McGonagall strode to the front. Unnoticed by Harry, Bentham had
      faded to the translucent shimmer of an alcohol flame. Fawkes
      retained his accustomed plumage, but was maintaining something like
      a Notice-Me-Not charm. Neither bird was noticed by any of the
      students who turned to gawk briefly at Harry before their attention
      was captured by Professor McGonagall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Today, children," began the calm professional voice of the
      Transfiguration Professor, just as though nothing out of the
      ordinary had happened, "we shall learn how much effort it takes to
      sustain a Transfiguration, and why, at your age, you should not
      even try. The original Form is not gone, only suppressed; and to
      maintain that suppression - "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excuse me," said Padma Patil. Her voice was shaking and she was
      visibly trembling, but still she asked the question. "Excuse me,
      Professor, but what happened with Miss Granger?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor McGonagall paused, then seemed to slump very slightly
      as she turned to face Padma. "Oh, very well. I suppose this is a
      matter of public record by now, and I quite see why you are
      concerned. The story is hardly mine to tell, however - Mr Potter,
      if you would?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry, the peace of the phoenix upon him, stood up calmly and
      strode to the front of the classroom. A gasp went around the room
      as the two phoenixes shimmered into view on his shoulders, but
      Harry ignored it; he merely bowed slightly to Professor McGonagall.
      "Thank you, Professor - I appreciate the consideration."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He turned to Padma and the rest of the class.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I shall begin, Miss Patil, by stating once more that Miss
      Granger is entirely innocent - you no doubt realise this already,
      but I must repeat it once more for the benefit of the others in
      this room. Miss Granger committed one morally questionable act, and
      one only; when she woke up believing that she had probably killed
      Mr Malfoy, she did not immediately turn herself in. The entire
      affair was an elaborate frame job, carried out by a skilled adult.
      Oh, and Mr Malfoy is innocent also; his only morally questionable
      act was to arrange a midnight duel with Miss Granger. Remember
      this, all of you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stood straight, face deadly serious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, as for what actually happened today. You all deserve to
      know how the Wizengamot actually works, and what sort of a world we
      actually live in. You also deserve to know how and why it is now
      changing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He glanced around the room at his classmates, all of whom were
      staring intently at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lord Malfoy was furious, understandably. He declared a Life
      Debt, and, less understandably, with a little prompting from Lord
      Jugson he called for Miss Granger to be sent to Azkaban.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The young faces before Harry now wore near-identical looks of
      slack-jawed horror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Wizengamot agreed. To be clear: earlier today, the
      Wizengamot voted to send Hermione Granger to Azkaban."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Many of the students cast questioning looks towards Professor
      McGonagall, but she merely nodded grimly. Harry continued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I declared Lord Malfoy's life debt to me for killing
      You-Know-Who, and offered it up to keep Miss Granger out of
      Azkaban. Lord Malfoy accepted, but demanded a hundred thousand
      Galleons as well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All the other students gasped at once; wealthy families or not,
      that was an obscene penalty. Harry went on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I tried to accept, but Professor Dumbledore overruled me -
      apparently he's my guardian. To be clear: the Headmaster of
      Hogwarts acted to send Hermione Granger to Azkaban. I won't call
      him a bad person, but you should all understand what he's willing
      in service of what he believes is right. I warned him that I
      wouldn't let Hermione Granger go to Azkaban, but he didn't believe
      me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry paused, and gestured towards Bentham.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bentham here came to me as I stood there, and he took me to
      Azkaban before Hermione could be taken there. I used my Patronus -
      yes, I do have one, but it's weird - I used my Patronus to destroy
      every Dementor in Azkaban."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The room was thrown into uproar, which lasted approximately two
      seconds before Professor McGonagall cast a wide-angle silencing
      charm. She dispelled it a moment later, but the silence held. Harry
      continued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As I was saying, I destroyed every Dementor in Azkaban before
      returning to the Hall of the Wizengamot. I then resolved my
      differences with Lord Malfoy and most of the Wizengamot; Hermione
      won't be going to Azkaban, and I'm not going into debt to House
      Malfoy. I also took up my family title - technically I'm Lord
      Potter now, though I will still answer to 'Harry'."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He grinned cheekily, savouring the looks of bewilderment and
      disbelief on his classmates' faces.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And to answer your question more directly, Miss Patil: Miss
      Granger is currently asleep in the infirmary, suffering nothing
      worse than emotional exhaustion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Padma sagged with relief, and Terry Boot spoke up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So who is this 'skilled adult' who framed Hermione?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry spread his hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know, Mr Boot. I have my suspicions, but I can't
      actually prove anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Terry looked thoughtful.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So has Professor Quirrell been arrested yet?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled faintly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I believe that Professor Quirrell was in fact being held for
      questioning, but he's probably been released already. As far as the
      Ministry is concerned there was no adult perpetrator - only a
      twelve-year-old girl guilty of attempted murder. And as for your
      implied accusation of Professor Quirrell for the adult crime which
      we know to have been committed, I can neither confirm nor deny
      anything about my private suspicions in relation to any
      individual."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Kevin Entwhistle spoke. "Is that Dumbledore's phoenix on your
      other shoulder?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Fawkes, yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is he your phoenix now? Can that even happen?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose it is possible, but no. Fawkes will still go back to
      Dumbledore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And is the other one - Bentham? - your phoenix now? Like, will
      he stay with you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded again. "I believe so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Michael Boot spoke up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"General, you've deliberately told us bad things about the
      Headmaster - you even said it was because you wanted us to know.
      Are you planning to lead students in open defiance of the
      Headmaster?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor McGonagall flinched at that, although fortunately no
      one was looking at her. Harry, at whom everyone was now staring,
      did not flinch. Instead he paused for a moment before casting a
      faintly apologetic glance at Professor McGonagall, who merely
      looked resigned. He then turned back to Terry, face now showing
      something of his anger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That, Mr Boot, is an excellent question."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry then told the story of his meeting with Professors
      McGonagall and Flitwick, though he did omit the more personal
      discussion between himself and Minerva. He told the story of their
      meeting with the Headmaster, omitting nothing except the details of
      the specific safety precautions suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And so you see, Mr Boot, that the Headmaster is so worried
      about me that he is willing to compromise the safety and security
      of Hogwarts and its students rather than listen to my suggestions.
      I do not do this lightly, of course, but I am indeed planning to
      lead students in at least applying pressure to the Headmaster to
      change his mind. I do respect the institution of Headmaster, and I
      do respect Professor Dumbledore himself, but I value your safety –
      our safety – much more highly than any of that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked around at the shocked faces, but there were no more
      questions. He retook his seat at the back of the room, and
      Professor McGonagall began her class.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
