<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos - Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos Chapter 19: A Conversation with the Founders, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s19" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 19: A Conversation with the Founders</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Updated</em> 8/24/2012</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Satisfied?" Harry asked, keeping his voice neutral. He didn't
      want Malfoy sensing the irritation and anger he was feeling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We didn't find anything," Malfoy replied, his tone as neutral
      as Harry's. "This time," he added. He was far from done with Potter
      and his sneaking around over the past few months.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was late in the evening, and the Auror teams that had
      searched Harry's offices and labs in the TBC Building ("ransacked"
      had been the term Harry used) had packed up and left, leaving only
      the Head Auror and his two subordinates, Crabbe and Goyle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This time," Harry repeated, softly. He gave Malfoy a
      condescending look. "You know there's nothing here to find."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Malfoy agreed, sarcastically. "That's why you showed up
      as soon as you could after we executed our warrants and stayed here
      the entire tire, because there's 'nothing here to find.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I just don't want you or your men pulling a fast one," Harry
      replied. "Look what you did to James Monroe a few months ago — you
      put an illegal trace spell on him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That spell is not illegal," Malfoy snapped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you didn't have clearance to use it," Harry snapped right
      back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There is some discretion over its use by Auror personnel,"
      Malfoy insisted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled. "Apparently not enough in that case," he reminded
      the Head Auror. "Since you had to remove it on orders from the
      Minister."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Your</em> wife," Malfoy sneered, because he had nowhere
      else to go with it. "Someday she isn't going to be Minister
      anymore, and who's going to protect you then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I guess we'll just have to wait and see," Harry said, coldly.
      Malfoy was really beginning to get on his nerves. "Isn't it time
      you toddled off to bed, to count your failures for the week?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy laughed and turned away, seething inwardly. Damn Potter!
      He might have won this round, but eventually he'd find something
      that would stick to the man. Motioning for Crabbe and Goyle to step
      closer, he brought out a parchment envelope that had been enchanted
      for their return to the Ministry. Crabbe and Goyle each grasped a
      corner, and Malfoy said, "Activate." The three of them disappeared
      in a whirlwind of color and light and a pop of air rushing in to
      fill the space they had occupied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Finally," Harry muttered. The only people left in the office
      now were him and Dean, and Dean was still checking the labs where
      Aurors had opened every drawer and cupboard, and poked around in
      every box. He took out his phone and called Dean. "How's it going?"
      he asked when Dean answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm getting things situated again," Dean said, in a tone that
      suggested he was highly aggravated at Malfoy and his Auror-goons.
      "They left things a mess, as usual, to show that they can do
      whatever they want when they have a warrant to back them up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can we finish things up tomorrow?" Harry asked. "I still have
      stuff to do and there's not that much time left in the day."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's no time left in the day," Dean laughed. "It's nearly
      tomorrow, aleady! But sure, this stuff can wait 'til then." He
      paused for a moment. "Is Ginny still here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I sent her home hours ago," Harry replied. "She said she
      had stuff to do before you got home."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh." Dean couldn't imagine what stuff she meant, but he wasn't
      altogether sure about a lot of what Ginny did lately. "Okay, well,
      I'll be there in a minute and we can get out of here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Great," Harry said, ending the call. He pocketed his phone and
      walked over to stand next to the elevator. His next stop was back
      to Hogwarts to see what Monroe had found out in the Room of
      Requirement. He just hoped James hadn't been stuck outside the Room
      this whole time, as funny (in a way) as that would be. Some people
      just couldn't do what it took to get into the Room of Requirement.
      James was a pretty intelligent guy, but that by itself was no
      guarantee of success. When Harry got there, he would find out soon
      enough which side of the door Monroe was on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At the Ministry, the Auror teams that had just left the TBC
      building were busy writing the reports that would go to the Head
      Auror, then to the Minister herself. At least, that was how things
      were supposed to work.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Given the amount of time the Auror Department had spending
      analyzing information related to TBC and Harry Potter over the past
      few weeks, some Aurors privately wondered just how much the Head
      Auror actually told the Minister what was going on with her
      husband, given the setbacks the Head had suffered in the past few
      months. But theirs was not to wonder why, theirs was but to do and
      report on it. Carefully. Especially so with Lord Malfoy's son as
      their boss.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy himself was in his office, going over the last bits of
      incoming correspondence before leaving until Monday morning. There
      were several status reports from the end of the week; he set those
      aside for next week. Manpower reports, also into the pile for next
      week. A couple of owl posts… he would read those then call it a
      day. His wife was probably wondering what was keeping him. He
      should have owled her, probably, but she was used to him by now, he
      hoped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The first owl was from one of the shopkeepers in Diagon Alley
      protesting the recent rental hike on his shop. And apparently he
      didn't buy the Ministry's official explanation that Harry Potter
      had requested the hike. He had written that according to the
      <em class="calibre7">Quibbler</em>, blah, blah blah.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco mentally shrugged. Where old Xenophilius Lovegood pulled
      those stories of his from would probably make an interesting story
      in itself. Never mind that in this case he happened to be right,
      for once — Potter had little to do with how the rental rates were
      determined in Diagon Alley, other than the fact that he had hooks
      into most of the businesses there and that was why Draco kept
      getting the rates bumped up every so often. That owl would go into
      his "special" file on Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The next owl he stared at for some time, recognizing the writing
      on the envelope. It was in the distinctive script of a Weasley
      Anony-Quill.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He ran his finger along the edge of the envelope, wandlessly
      casting <em class="calibre7">Diffindo</em>, and the letter slid into his hand. As he
      expected it was once again about Potter; this time the writer was
      saying that Potter had been to the Chamber of Secrets at Hogwarts,
      that he had found out something about the statue of Salazar
      Slytherin there. What, specifically he'd found out, the letter
      didn't say, but letter went on to urge him to stop Potter from
      undermining the rule of the Ministry and the Wizengamot. What,
      Draco wondered, could Potter have discovered that would undermine
      either of those? That would be nearly impossible, even considering
      that one of his friends was now the Chief Wizard of the
      Wizengamot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Unless he'd found some way to make either the Ministry or the
      Wizengamot, or both, powerless to stop him, somehow. Potter and his
      minion Monroe had been poking around in exotic ideas lately, things
      like where the source of magic came from, whether magic could
      somehow be made to increase without limit, or if he'd found some
      way around the Interdict of Merlin. None of those scenarios boded
      well for the future of the Ministry, or for Draco's future, if he
      wasn't positioned properly when Potter made his play.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco dropped the letter on his desk, then closed his eyes and
      tried to think. This was the third letter he'd received from his
      "confidential informant" about Potter and his activities, and the
      evidence pointed to a Weasley — ostensibly Ron since he knew the
      second-youngest Weasley sibling didn't care too much for Potter,
      not like the rest of his family, who practically idolized him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But Ron Weasley wasn't the sort of fellow who could get the kind
      of information the letters Draco had on his own. He was no dummy,
      of course; like his brothers, their Hogwarts transcripts didn't
      give a good indication of how smart they really were. Between Fred
      and George together they'd earned only three O.W.L.s, and Ron had
      earned only six, most of those with help from the other Gryffindors
      (and probably Granger as well, they were more-or-less friendly
      during their fifth year, Draco remembered). Yet the three of them
      and their spouses were running two very successful shops in Diagon
      Alley, shops that sold some pretty sophisticated magic items, if
      you ignored the fact they were mostly mimicking Muggle technology
      or were novelty and joke items. Even the Auror Department used
      Weasley technology — on the Q.T. of course; Draco didn't want them
      knowing their devices were in his offices, even though those
      devices had been checked for hidden spells and such.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Still, Ron Weasley probably wasn't the instigator of these
      letters, not on his own. At least that was Draco's working
      hypothesis — he could be wrong, but if so that would make things
      simpler, not harder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And from there it was easy enough to decide what to do. Draco
      grabbed a quill and parchment and wrote down his plan, then left
      his office, stopping at Mr. Crabbe's cubicle. "New plan," he told
      Vincent, dropping the parchment on his desk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Vincent Crabbe glanced up at his boss, a neutral expression on
      his face, then picked up the parchment and began to read. He
      blinked a couple of times, but kept himself from blanching. "You
      mean <em class="calibre7">now</em>?" he finally asked, trying to keep the
      aggravation out of his voice. Nobody in the department was going to
      be happy about this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now," Draco affirmed. "I want to catch them off-guard. Each
      team should have enough Veritaserum for three people, in case the
      interrogations go long or someone else becomes available. Make sure
      to check each person for the antidote. And make sure no one is able
      to communicate with anyone else — I don't want to give them any
      chance of cooking up a story for us. Get it done. I'll be here if
      you need me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Crabbe nodded, then went to let Goyle in on their new task.
      Draco went back to his office, hoping that nothing went wrong with
      this plan. He needed to find out once and for all who was feeding
      him information about Potter, and why.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Apparated just outside Hogsmeade, this time beneath his
      Cloak of Invisibility. He paused for a moment, considering his
      options. It was going to be more difficult to get <em class="calibre7">into</em>
      Hogwarts than it had been getting <em class="calibre7">out</em> of it. Difficult,
      but certainly not impossible. Under the Cloak, with a Silencing
      Charm in place to keep his footsteps and breathing from being
      heard, the only thing that could locate him under his Cloak was
      something he already had with him — the Marauder's Map.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry made his way down the road leading to the gates of the
      castle wall, using moonlight to guide him. The gates were his first
      problem. It was past midnight and they would certainly be locked.
      He pondered for a moment, then decided to see if his trick door
      would work. He pulled it out of the mokeskin pouch but the cylinder
      wouldn't pass between the bars of the gate. So much for that. He
      tried the walls on either side of the gate, with the same luck.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Good for Neville, he and his staff were keeping up with the
      times, Harry smiled to himself. He tried several unlocking spells
      on the lock and chains holding the gate closed, with no success. He
      had a potion of spider-climbing in his pouch but certainly the wall
      would be warded for things like that. It was tempting to give it a
      try, though, just in case Neville and his staff had overlooked
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But, no. And while there were several other items in his pouch
      that he might have used in various novel ways to defeat the gate,
      there was an alternate solution that would probably work just as
      well, though it would call attention to him. Harry reached into his
      pouch and pulled out his broomstick. Mounting it still covered in
      his Cloak, Harry pushed off, his wand in his hand, and flew upward
      and into a loop that took him directly over the wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As he passed over the wall the wards immediately kicked in,
      neutralizing his broom's flying ability. Harry glided gently to the
      ground. He'd known that the wards would not simply drop him (or
      anyone) to the ground. He quickly stuffed the broom back in his
      pouch then cast a Silencing Charm on the inside of the Cloak and
      hurried toward the front doors. If he was fast enough he'd get
      there before anyone came out to investigate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He stopped at the base of the front stairs. Someone from the
      staff, possibly Neville himself, would be checking to see who'd set
      off the anti-flight wards on the castle perimeter. They would be
      casting detection spells to check for the presence of intruders. So
      — Harry would have to make himself scarce for a few minutes. That's
      where his pouch would once again come in handy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville Longbottom, Headmaster of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft
      and Wizardry, strode down the grand staircase into the Entrance
      Hall of the school, his now slightly lined face frowning with
      apprehension. Who could have set off the flight wards at this time
      of night? Had some student been out having a midnight flight at the
      Quidditch pitch and flew out of bounds? Or was something more
      serious going on? He paused at the double oaken doors, still bolted
      and locked, and cast the spells to unlock them. He then sent a
      <em class="calibre7">Homenum Revelio</em> spell through the door, to check for any
      humans outside. None were detected within range of the spell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two fifth-year Hufflepuff prefects rushed into the Entrance Hall
      through the door leading to their common room. "We just heard the
      alarm, Headmaster!" the girl, Eileen Weatherly, said breathlessly.
      "Do you need any help?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think so, Eileen," Neville replied, smiling at her and
      James Brandson, her fellow prefect. "But why don't you two wait
      here until I return, keep things safe and tell any of the other
      prefects or teachers that show up that I'm having a look round
      outside."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two prefects nodded, and Neville waved his wand again. One
      of the oaken doors slowly opened, and he stepped through. The door
      began to slowly close again, then wobbled for a moment before it
      finally shut.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was weird," James said, walking over to stare at the big
      oaken door. "I wonder what's wrong with this thing? I never saw it
      do that before."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Headmaster was probably distracted," Eileen guessed. James
      shrugged, then stood a bit straighter. He'd been charged with
      securing this room, and he intended to do just that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Under his Cloak, Harry paused on the staircase landing and
      smiled at the two students. It was hard to remember when he was
      that young. The entrance door had almost closed on him as he
      slipped past Neville; he'd had to step lively to get through, and
      the door had brushed against him anyway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had waited at the top of the stairs, hidden inside his
      pouch, until his detection spells told him a Human Revealment Charm
      had been cast. He and Quirrell had once used his original pouch to
      hide the Defense professor, in his Animagus snake-form, inside it.
      With this improved version, Harry could put much larger objects
      inside, including himself, using a special keyword when he put his
      hand in the pouch's mouth. Another keyword would reverse that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The door had opened just as he stood and Neville stepped
      outside, allowing Harry entry. He moved away from the two students
      who were staring curiously at the door, and made his way up the
      staircase to the first floor. Only six more to go before he got to
      the seventh floor and the Room of Requirement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred Weasley snuggled against his wife's sleeping form, enjoying
      the warmth her body created. It had been a long day in the shop,
      with too much of it taken up explaining to a potential customer how
      a Weasley-modified iPhone (the Weasley wPhone 5) was many times
      superior to owl posts — with their new Owl Post Service you could
      send a message to a wizard who did not possess a wPhone of their
      own: Weasleys' Wireless Wonderland had an agreement with the Diagon
      Alley Owlery, in which they'd installed a device to transcribe
      messages onto parchment, attach it to an owl, and send it off to
      the intended witch or wizard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred was proud of that device, and rightly so — it had taken
      some time before the owls understood who they were supposed to take
      the message to, even when the device spoke the name clearly and
      distinctly. The old wizard who ran the Owlery was even harder to
      convince; he'd scratched the wart on his chin, frowning, and said
      he'd never heard of such a thing as a <em class="calibre7">box</em> telling his owls
      where to go! Only a wizard could do that! Fred had to cut the man
      in on 10 percent of the profits before he'd agree to try it. But it
      was working smooth as glass now, and Weasley wPhones accounted for
      27 percent of all the messages sent from the Owlery these days. The
      old man was usually smiling whenever Fred saw him these days; he'd
      even added a couple of long-distance owls to his business since
      partnering with the Weasleys.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By contrast, though, what Fred really wanted to spend more time
      doing was research on new ideas for their wireless and electronics
      business. There were several concents in the Muggle marketplace of
      ideas that could be adapted for the Wizarding community. One was a
      GPS system for brooms. GPS stood for "global positioning system," a
      means of knowing where you were and for directing you to your
      desired location, and while you could use Muggle GPS systems on a
      broom now, they had to be carefully protected from magic or they
      tended not to work right. Fred wanted to develop a magical GPS, one
      that could be affixed to any broom to allow the rider to simply
      follow its directions without continual course correction and
      needless detours, something that was difficult to get Muggle GPSs
      to do unless you were flying at almost street level, which wasn't
      practical unless the broom had an Invisibility Booster, and then it
      was still dangerous in areas with tall vehicles like trucks and
      double-decker buses. A magical GPS would be something like the
      Marauder's Map, but with a much wider mapping area, and it had to
      be done on the fly. He might have to borrow the Map back from
      Harry, so he could do some reverse-engineering on it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even bolder was his idea to develop a self-flying broom, a broom
      that you could just get on and tell it, for example, "Take me to
      Aunt Muriel's house," and it would take off and fly you there
      without you having to control the broom at all. That was slower
      going; Fred was having to bone up on fleobromolgy, the study of
      magical flying brooms — flying charms, braking charms, the charms
      used to control the steering of the broom; it turned out enchanting
      a single broom was a very complex procedure, especially if you
      wanted Firebolt-quality performance, and Fred would accept nothing
      less from any brooms his shops produced.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Verity stirred beside him, and Fred waited to see if she was
      going to wake up. It would be nice if she did — she usually woke up
      feeling amorous, and Fred wouldn't mind if they decided to spend a
      few intimate moments before falling back to sleep. But Verity only
      rolled onto her side, facing away from him, her breathing still low
      and steady.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Oh well</em>, Fred thought to himself, <em class="calibre7">there's always
      time for a little bit before we get up in the morning</em>, and
      rolled onto his side as well. Verity could be quite randy some
      mornings —</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Wham</em>. Fred winced as if he'd been struck. Had Verity
      just <em class="calibre7">hit</em> him? He looked back at her — no, she hadn't
      moved! What was going on —? Then he realized what he'd felt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred slipped out of bed, grabbing his housecoat and slipping it
      on in one fluid motion as he moved toward the door of their
      bedroom. What he'd <em class="calibre7">felt</em> was the wards protecting the shop
      downstairs catastrophically collapsing. Someone (likely more than a
      single wizard) had cast a powerful ward-breaking curse. They were
      under attack.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">George's door opened as Fred approached it and his twin brother
      joined him as they rushed towards the staircase. "How many, d'you
      think?" George asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another door opened behind him and the twins knew that Ron was
      with them. "What the hell was that?" Ron was saying.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Has to be at least a half-dozen," Fred answered George as they
      started down the stairs. "Protection wards breaking," he threw over
      his shoulder to their youngest brother. "Be ready for anything," he
      added, unnecessarily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Don't move</em>!" voices suddenly shouted at them from the
      bottom of the staircase. The light of multiple <em class="calibre7">Lumos</em>
      charms glared at them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Both Fred and George's wands were pointing toward the lights.
      "Who's there?!" Fred called out. "Who are you?!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ministry Aurors! Drop your wands and come down slowly!' a voice
      replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As one, the twins filled the space in front of them with Shield
      Charms. "I think we'll make sure who you are, first," Fred drawled.
      "What are you doing here in the middle of the night on a weekend?
      Pubs close early?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're here to question you," the voice said, sounding very
      annoyed at being questioned himself under these circumstances.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"About…?" Fred prompted, with false politeness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We'll discuss that with each of you during questioning," the
      voice snapped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Each of us?" George didn't like the sound of that. "Who d'you
      intend to question?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have orders to question <em class="calibre7">all</em> of you," the Auror
      behind the lights growled angrily. "Each of you, and each of your
      wives. You are doing yourselves no favors by not cooperating!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred and George glanced at one another, each with the same
      thought — this was about Harry. It had to be. They both glanced
      back at Ron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Ron whispered apprehensively. "I didn't do
      anything!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You better not have," Fred whispered back, threateningly.
      "They're going to question all of us, probably separately and
      probably about Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Ron said, looking even more apprehensive now. "Er —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, bollocks, " George snapped. He cast a Silencing Charm
      around the three of them before asking, "You <em class="calibre7">did</em> do
      something, didn't you?!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What was it?" Fred demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron sighed. "I sent a few letters to Malfoy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"About what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Saying that he should, um, investigate Harry a bit more
      closely. But I used an Anony-Quill!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, Merlin's pants," Fred groaned. "He probably traced it to
      us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lower your wands!" the Auror said again, more insistently. "You
      have three seconds —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We have to figure out what to tell these guys," Fred began, but
      —</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's it! Take 'em!" the Auror shouted, and several Stunners
      bounced off their Shields. "Again!" More bangs and red flashes as
      Stunners expended themselves."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hold 'em," Fred muttered to George, then suddenly turned his
      wand back on Ron. Before Ron could react Fred said softly,
      "<em class="calibre7">Obliviate</em>!" and Ron suddenly got a faraway look in his
      eyes, like he had just awakened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hope I got everything," Fred whispered to George, then canceled
      the Silencing Charm and shouted, "Oi! All right, we give up, we're
      lowering our wands!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The twins offered no resistance as Disarming Charms relieved
      them of their wands and Aurors stormed up the stairs, grabbing each
      of them in turn and hustling them down into the shop. More Aurors
      ran upstairs. Fred smiled slightly as they tripped the intruder
      spells set for anyone other than friends and family of the
      Weasleys. There were going to be some rather disconcerted Aurors
      getting anatomy-switching hexes removed before any of them were
      questioned. Which, he added glumly to himself, wasn't going to make
      up for the yelling-at he was going to get from his wife when she
      was awakened by an Auror with his arse where his face ought to
      be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hogwarts was a rather busy place late at night, even on
      weekends, Harry reflected, having passed a few more pairs of
      prefects patrolling corridors, more than a few pairs of students
      snogging in corners, and one rather inquisitive Kneazle that seemed
      to stare at him right through his Cloak for quite a while before
      going its own way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd also caught a glimpse of Nearly Headless Nick on the fifth
      floor as the Gryffindor house ghost floated out of one wall, across
      the corridor in front of him, and into another. Ghosts were another
      aspect of the whole "soul" thing he and Monroe had been debating
      the past few months; it was difficult to come across even one in
      most British towns, even those with a wizarding population, but
      Hogwarts had something like two dozen of them: four official House
      ghosts: Nearly Headless Nick, the Bloody Baron, the Fat Friar and
      the Gray Lady, along with Myrtle and Professor Binns, to name but a
      few. If they were merely afterimages impressed upon this world
      because of an unexpected or violent death, rather than actual
      souls, what would it take to dissipate them, and should anyone do
      so, unless there really was an afterlife waiting for them? Those
      were the kinds of questions he and James had been going back and
      forth with.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once on the seventh floor, Harry stopped at a quiet corner and
      brought out the thing he'd been anxious to try again since
      returning to Hogwarts — the Marauder's Map. He pulled the large
      blank piece of parchment out of his pouch and tapped it with his
      wand, murmuring, "I solemnly swear that I am up to no good."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lines began flowing across the blank parchment, creating a map
      of the castle complete with labeled dots indicating the person they
      represented. When Fred and George had given him this, they said
      they believed it was part of the original Hogwarts security system.
      What they <em class="calibre7">didn't</em> know was that Harry knew that Remus
      Lupin, who had taught Defense for a year at Hogwarts, was the Moony
      named as one of its authors, along with Prongs, Padfoot and
      Wormtail, who were in reality Harry's father James, his best friend
      Sirius Black, and Peter Pettigrew. An unlikely quartet, Harry had
      thought at the time. Far from being nearly 800 years old, the
      Marauer's Map had only been around since the mid 1970's, when
      Lupin, Black, Pettigrew and his father had been in their upper
      years at the school. Lupin had promised to tell him sometime how
      they'd created it, but he'd never gotten around to it, and he was
      too busy these days for Harry to bother him over it. But he really
      should — the Map was extraordinary magic, and Harry was very
      interested in how students who weren't even fully-qualified wizards
      had managed to create it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But on to his primary use for the Map right now, which was to
      find out how many students or staff members were near the corridor
      where the Room of Requirement was located, and to check whether
      James Monroe had made it into the Room or not. At the moment, Harry
      saw, no one was in the corridor in question, not even Monroe, which
      was a good thing. Still carrying the Map, and crouching slightly to
      keep his feet hidden, Harry made his way to the corridor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mischief managed." He folded the still-disappearing Map and
      slipped it back into his pouch, then took off the Cloak and did the
      same with it, and stood regarding the blank wall where the door to
      the Room of Requirement would appear. Assuming Monroe was in there,
      Harry had to send him a signal that would unambiguously identify
      him. That would be easy enough to do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry placed the tip of his wand against the wall, activated a
      spell, then said, "Recognition code 927, I am a potato." The spell
      would project his words through the wall to the other side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was nearly a minute, however, before a door formed on Harry's
      side of the wall and cracked open a bit. A pair of eyes stared out
      at Harry, and the door opened wide, revealing a tired-looking James
      Monroe. "That had to be you," he grinned at Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What have you found out —" Harry began, moving to come inside,
      but Monroe put out a hand, stopping him, then stepped outside.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't let the door go shut!" Harry said quickly, and Monroe
      nodded, took out his wand and conjured a brick in his other hand.
      He placed the brick in the doorway so the door would remain
      open.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Before you go in there," he prefaced, "I need to let you in on
      what I've found. Apparently the four Founders transferred a part of
      themselves into the castle itself. Like a Horcrux, but also
      <em class="calibre7">not</em> like one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was intrigued. This was just the break they'd been hoping
      for! In fact it wildly exceeded their expectations! "How so?" he
      asked excitedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whatever they did, it didn't require murder to complete the
      ritual," Monroe explained. "I don't know if the statue of Slytherin
      in the Chamber is a Horcrux or not, I haven't had time to go back
      and check."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You've been here something like ten hours now," Harry reminded
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe nodded excitedly. "Right, I've been busy learning spells
      from the Founders! The Room's full of old book with
      Interdict-encrypted spells in them. When I show them a spell I
      can't read, they can, once they read it to me, <em class="calibre7">I can understand
      it</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So that's it!" Harry all but shouted. "We can beat the
      Interdict!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Monroe agreed, then began to sit down. A chair appeared
      beneath him, and he leaned forward wearily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you okay?" a suddenly-worried Harry asked him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tired," Monroe muttered. "I've been afraid to stop talking to
      them or leave the Room — I wasn't sure I could get back in if I
      left."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did you find a room with the Four Founders in it?" Harry
      wanted to know.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not sure. I wanted to find out what you and Slytherin's statue
      talked about down in the Chamber," Monroe replied, tiredly rubbing
      his eyes. "Apparently only the Four Founders could answer that
      question. I don't know. I've wondered why nobody else has come
      across them before."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe someone has," Harry speculated. He could imagine one
      other person who might've had the wherewithal to find and talk to
      the Four Founders.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who?" Monroe asked, then realized who Harry was thinking of.
      "Oh, you mean Voldemort."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes." Harry's voice was grim. "If that happened, I'm not sure
      why he's not ruling Britain — or the world — right now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then maybe he didn't," Monroe suggested. "I mean — if you think
      he destroyed the Basilisk after taking Slytherin's Interdict-level
      spells from it, why wouldn't he have destroyed the Founders'
      statues?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why don't we go ask them?" Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny, dressed in only her nightgown and robe, had been led into
      the kitchen of her and Dean's apartment and seated in a kitchen
      chair. The table had been Vanished and the two Aurors sat facing
      her in the other chairs. Dean was presumably in the other room with
      two different Aurors, undergoing the same procedure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She had been advised of her rights (which at the moment weren't
      very useful, since she was not yet charged with anything) and asked
      if she would submit to interrogation under Veritaserum. The
      alternative, the two Aurors told her, would mean being charged with
      <em class="calibre7">obstruction of justice</em> (a term borrowed from Muggle
      legalese meaning, she wasn't being completely cooperative) and a
      full-scale investigation into her activities would be conducted
      while she was detained in Azkaban. A very unpleasant alterative, to
      be sure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny had nodded agreement, not speaking, and the senior Auror
      told her to answer verbally. "I agree," she said, adding, "Pursuant
      to Section Two of the Unified Wizards' Code of 2012, paragraph
      14."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The senior Auror smiled mirthlessly. "I see you know your
      rights, Mrs. Thomas," he said, his voice low and rumbling. He was a
      large man, with perhaps a bit of giant blood in him, as his head
      reached nearly to the ceiling of the room when he stood up; he'd
      had to stoop to walk through doorways. "I wonder why you feel the
      need to invoke that particular right."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Somehow I don't see you reminding me of its existence," Ginny
      replied, curtly. The law she'd quoted guaranteed that if no charges
      were filed as a result of her interrogation, any transcripts or
      Pensieve memories generated from her questioning would be
      destroyed. The only place interrogation could exist was in the
      minds of the individuals who were directly involved in it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well," the big Auror said. "Give it to her," he said to
      the other Auror, a younger man only a few years out of Auror
      Training. The younger Auror handed Ginny a glass of water
      containing three drops of Veritaserum.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny took the glass and calmly drank it, passing the empty
      glass back to the Aurors. "Go ahead," she said. "Ask your
      questions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In a minute," the big Auror said. "Give it a while to take
      effect."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny sat impassively, looking at the two men in turn: the big
      Auror made the chair he was sitting in look like a child's chair,
      and the younger Auror who kept stealing glances at his senior
      counterpart. "I would like to get some sleep tonight," she said at
      last.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure you would," the big Auror drawled. He smiled a crooked
      smile. "But we have miles to go before you sleep, Mrs. Thomas.
      Miles to go before you sleep."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
