<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos - Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos Chapter 2: The Interview, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 2: The Interview Pt 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <p class="calibre6">Updated 11/04/2011</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">I notice that I am confused."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lunch was nearly over. James Monroe was still finishing the last
      bit of filet mignon on his plate. Harry Potter-Evans-Verres had
      finished his meal and was sitting across the table from the
      journalist, seemingly lost in thought as he sipped absently at a
      crystal goblet filled with wine.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe expected Harry was organizing his thoughts, contemplating
      the questions he would be asked during the interview. Most of the
      questions were well-known: <em class="calibre7">What is the Singularity</em> and
      <em class="calibre7">Is the Singularity near</em>, stuff like that, all pretty
      standard questions for an interview. Monroe hoped to challenge
      Harry with a few hard questions, dealing with information Monroe
      had collected about TBC Enterprises over the past few months he'd
      been trying to get this meeting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Almost the moment Monroe dropped the fork on his empty plate, a
      server appeared from the second door, removing their dishes and
      returning with coffee cups. Monroe nodded as the young woman
      offered to fill his cup; she filled Harry's without asking. The
      server also left a small tray with sugar packets, substitute, and
      creamer. Harry helped himself to a couple of sugar packets and the
      creamer, while Monroe used a substitute and a small splash of
      creamer. For several moments the only sounds in the room were
      spoons clinking as they stirred their drinks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anytime you're ready," Harry finally said, glancing at his
      watch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe reached into his inside jacket pocket and took out a pen.
      However, he did not take out a notepad; instead, he clicked the pen
      and placed it between them on the table. Harry gazed at the object
      with interest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A recording device?" he asked, looking up at Monroe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Audio only," Monroe nodded. "I didn't think you'd mind — it's
      for both of our protection. I'll let you have a copy of the
      recording, I can download it into an MP3 device if you have one
      that accepts Bluetooth V protocols."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's acceptable," Harry agreed. "In fact —" he reached into a
      pocket and took out a device that looked like a flash drive, but
      without the mini-USB port. "This is a similar device manufactured
      by one of our subsidiary companies. It has 128 gigabytes of
      recording memory and can produce most of the major audio formats,
      uploadable through BT5 to any device that can play back any of the
      formats."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe looked fascinatedly at the device. "Impressive! My
      Record-A-Pen only has 64 gigs, and only uploads MP3's. I guess I'm
      not on the cutting edge of technology these days."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Apparently not," Harry agreed, in a neutral tone. He tapped his
      recording device and a small red LED began blinking. "Ready when
      you are, Gridley."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe smiled at the odd reference. Harry was apparently
      well-read. "Let's start with the most obvious question: What does
      the Singularity mean to you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The end of my job, obviously," Harry grinned. "But that's
      probably not the response your audience would expect. I'd say it's
      a time in future history of radical change, when progress occurs
      faster than normal humans can understand, or keep up with."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">A boilerplate response</em>, thought Monroe. "Any ideas what
      type of progress you think will most likely produce this radical
      change?" he asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh…" Harry looked thoughtful for several seconds, sipping his
      coffee. "I'm not sure. It's kind of a toss-up which way the tech
      research companies decide are the coolest, or maybe the least
      nerdy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Nicely evaded</em>. "Which way do <em class="calibre7">you</em> think is
      least nerdy?" Monroe pressed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry cocked his head. "I think brain-computer interfaces will
      be the most interesting. We have a subsidiary working on that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which one?" Monroe asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry only smiled and took another sip.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Okay</em>, Monroe thought. <em class="calibre7">Let's move on, then</em>. "Do
      you think the Singularity is near?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It depends on what you mean by 'near,'" Harry answered, and
      Monroe suppressed a sigh of exasperation. <em class="calibre7">It's like pulling
      teeth to get this guy to talk</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whatever you consider near," Monroe suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry steepled his fingers on the table once again. "I like
      Kurzweil's prediction of 2045," he said. "It's out far enough to
      give the AI people a chance to develop human-level intelligence
      without being overly optimistic about it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you consider 'overly optimistic'?" Monroe
      continued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, 2020, 2030, estimates like that." Harry waved a hand
      dismissing them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why consider them optimistic?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's still a lot to be done," Harry answered. "Even I have
      fallen prey to the planning fallacy in the past. In 1956 scientists
      at the Dartmouth Conference on Artificial Intelligence suggested,
      in all seriousness, that key elements of artificial intelligence
      could be solved by ten scientists working on them for about two
      months. Here we are, 60 years later, and they are just barely
      starting to understand what must still be done."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're starting to come off as something of a skeptic," Monroe
      remarked, taking a drink from his own cup, the first one he'd had
      since it had been filled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not at all," Harry disagreed. "I think they simply failed to
      grasp the scope of the problem. Self-improving AI is just a
      stepping-stone to the Singularity itself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is TBC doing to work toward the Singularity?" was Monroe's
      next question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're primarily going down the 'N' path of the GNR paradigm,"
      Harry responded. "Currently our primary product development is in
      MEMS, and we've been doing cutting-edge research in grapheme IC's,
      diamond manufacturing for quantum computer systems, and
      self-repairing and assembling nanosystems."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How far are we away from molecular nanotechnology, the
      so-called 'Holy Grail' of nanotech?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Less than a decade, I would estimate," Harry said. "It will
      probably be developed before human-level AI becomes available."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Some scientists consider MNT to be problematic without
      better-than-human level intelligence to control it," Monroe pointed
      out. "What do you think of that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "It's the same problem the 'Friendly-AI' people
      have with uncontrolled development of smarter-than-human machine
      intelligence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, how long until we have human-level Artificial
      Intelligence?" Monroe pressed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, Kurzweil's prediction for a machine to pass the Turing
      test is by 2029," Harry answered. "I'd agree with that, for the
      most part."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For the most part?" Monroe echoed. "Are any of your
      'subsidiaries' working on AI now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled thinly at the obvious quotes Monroe put around the
      word "subsidiary." "We have some research going on," he admitted.
      "I'm not really at liberty to discuss specifics."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe was silent for several seconds. Potter was talking a lot
      but not really saying much positive about the Singularity. He took
      a few sips of his coffee, then asked, "Do you think the Singularity
      should be a cause for alarm or concern for people?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry chuckled briefly. "I don't think most people are even
      going to know the Singularity occurred, much less be alarmed over
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe frowned. <em class="calibre7">That was interesting</em>. <em class="calibre7">And alarming
      in itself, in a way</em>. "I would think <em class="calibre7">everyone</em> would
      know about the Singularity, when it occurred."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, you might think that," Harry agreed, dryly. "But didn't we
      already agree earlier that the Singularity would be beyond most
      people's ability to comprehend? When you're confronted with an
      unknown, your only two real options are to try to comprehend it, or
      ignore it and hope it goes away. I think most people will do the
      latter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe shook his head. "I don't think I agreed to that at
      all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then why didn't you call me on it when I said it, earlier?"
      Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because I'm conducting an interview," Monroe pointed out, with
      a hint of acerbity in his voice. "I don't want to introduce bias
      into the conversation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, so you admit you're biased when it comes to the
      Singularity, then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe's mouth clamped shut on the obscenity he almost uttered.
      <em class="calibre7">Manipulative sonofabitch, isn't he</em>? "I just don't want to
      interject my personal views into what you're saying," he answered,
      tightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why not?" Harry wondered, eyebrows raised in a falsely-innocent
      expression. "Won't you do that back at your offices when you're
      writing the story? I just don't expect most people to realize that
      the Singularity has occurred. In fact, how do we know it
      <em class="calibre7">hasn't</em> occurred yet?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That seems pretty obvious —" Monroe stopped, considering.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think you're seeing my point," Harry observed, and drained
      the last of his cup. He set the cup down and leaned forward over
      the table, toward Monroe. "In principle, we would not be able to
      tell the difference between reality and a perfect emulation of
      reality."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Like that movie, <em class="calibre7">The Matrix</em>," Monroe suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was thinking a bit more current," Harry said. "<em class="calibre7">The
      Matrix</em> is 17 years old, and the emulation <em class="calibre7">wasn't</em>
      perfect. People who learned they were in the Matrix found ways to
      bend the rules of the emulation, or break them. I was thinking more
      of the movie <em class="calibre7">The Rainbow Reality</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The Rainbow Reality</em> was a film that had come out last
      year. In it, the main protagonist, Bill, learned that the reality
      he was in was virtual when someone from the next lower level
      somehow passed that information to him. He had been in the Red
      Level, the highest level of implementation, and he embarked on a
      quest to find the lowest level, designated the Violet Level. Each
      level had had its own rules and its own exceptions to the rules —
      in the level Bill was in, he was a retired assassin who trained
      other assassins (mostly women) and sent them on assignments. His
      doppelganger in the Orange Level, suspecting that one of his
      assassins would return and kill him, had sent Bill a clue that
      allowed him to figure out a way to download himself to the Orange
      Level. The rest of the movie was a weird combination of angst and
      action as Bill found versions of himself — or those who had killed
      him — on every level.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Those emulations weren't perfect, either," Monroe pointed out.
      "People could move from one level to another."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If someone at a lower level told them a lower level existed,"
      Harry argued. "But there was no internal rule-breaking at any of
      the levels, just the laws of physics as they were implemented for
      that level."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which always included a way to move to higher or lower levels,"
      Monroe added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't you think we'll be able to do that after the
      Singularity?" Harry asked, curious. "Move to higher or lower levels
      of reality if we want to?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What level of reality do you think we're at now?" Monroe
      answered the question with one of his own. He was beginning to get
      tired of Harry Potter-Evans-Verres driving the interview in
      whatever direction he wanted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll answer," Harry said, after a moment. "If you promise to do
      the same."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe sighed. "Very well," he said stiffly, silently resolving
      this was the last manipulation he would put up with. "I agree."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My answer," Harry said at once. "Is that I think we always act
      as if we are at the lowest level of implementation, because, well,
      what other choice do we have?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your turn," Harry nodded to the journalist.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe was silent for several moments. "My answer," he said at
      last. "Is the same as yours."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry actually giggled. "<em class="calibre7">Now</em> who's being manipulative?"
      he asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's <em class="calibre7">not</em> being manipulative!" Monroe said, sharply.
      "Aren't other people allowed to think the same way you do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"See?" Harry pointed toward him. "<em class="calibre7">That's</em>
      manipulation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe sat back suddenly in his chair. "This conversation is
      becoming surreal," he muttered, rubbing his forehead in
      frustration.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then my work here is nearly done," Harry grinned. "I like
      introducing as much surreality in people's lives as possible. And
      we haven't even gotten to the extraction of that mnemonic from your
      unconscious."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe shook his head. "No, I don't think we're doing that any
      more."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, come on," Harry wheedled. "You're going to find it very
      interesting, I think."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's easy enough to say that," Monroe retorted. "But the
      reality is, your opinion of what I find interesting may not be that
      reliable. For example, this interview would have been <em class="calibre7">much</em>
      more interesting if you'd just answered the questions
      straightforwardly and not bobbed and weaved around everything I
      asked you, even if it hadn't been for all the work you put me
      through just to get to this point."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wanted to see how interested you were in this interview,"
      Harry said, then shrugged. "Well, that was a lie. I really didn't
      want to do this interview in the first place, not for some paper
      magazine with a limited readership, even if you do upload your
      articles to the web these days. It just wasn't worth my time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So why <em class="calibre7">did</em> you do the interview?" Monroe asked, in a
      controlled tone. If for no other reason, Potter admitting that on
      the record would be <em class="calibre7">very</em> interesting reading — worth all
      the trouble it had taken him to get here.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was that recognition code," Harry answered. "It's the exact
      same phrase I used when I was a kid, to help me remember that I'd
      forgotten something. I'm really, <em class="calibre7">really</em> curious how you
      happened to come across it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I <em class="calibre7">told</em> you," Monroe was shaking his head. "I have no
      idea how I know —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry interrupted him. "Would you like to know a really big
      secret?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Very few witches or wizards, within the Ministry or without,
      knew the password that would admit them to the office of the
      Minister of Magic. The door to that office, securely locked and
      magically protected, suddenly burst open, admitting the Head of the
      Magical Law Enforcement Department, rage written across his sharp,
      pointed features. He stopped in front of the Minister's desk,
      barely controlling himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What the hell does Harry think he's doing <em class="calibre7">now</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Minister looked up at him. "Just as you and I think, most
      likely — he's having an interview with a Muggle journalist about
      something called the Singularity."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have you been watching what he's <em class="calibre7">doing</em>?" The Head
      Auror demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have other things to do than watch Harry give an interview,"
      the Minister said, mildly. "Besides, that's <em class="calibre7">your</em> job,
      Draco. You wanted those viewing devices planted in his office and
      private dining room."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You told him about them!" Draco said, accusingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I did not," the Minister shook her head. "You put the security
      level of those viewing devices above Harry's need to know, and I
      agreed with it, even though it would seem we don't trust him as
      much as say we do to his face. I have a problem with that, but
      Harry is privy to a lot of sensitive information — we do have to
      make sure it is kept out of the wrong hands."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Watch this, then," Draco pointed his wand at the white display
      square on the Minister's desk, and the image of Harry and Muggle
      journalist appeared on it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">It was that recognition code</em>," Harry's image was
      saying. "<em class="calibre7">It's the exact same phrase I used when I was a kid, to
      help me remember that I'd forgotten something. I'm really, really
      curious how you happened to come across it</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">I</em> told <em class="calibre7">you</em>," the Muggle was shaking his head.
      "<em class="calibre7">I have no idea how I know</em> —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry interrupted him. "<em class="calibre7">Would you like to know a really big
      secret</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And the image went blank.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco glared at the Minister. "What kind of 'really big secret'
      would Harry tell to a <em class="calibre7">Muggle</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Minister was frowning at the blank screen. "I don't know,"
      she said. "Surely not —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd like to believe that, too," Draco nodded. "After all this
      time, the existence of the Wizarding world is known to very few
      Muggles; most of them have witches and wizards as relatives. But —"
      he pointed to the blank display "— the feed cut off at that moment
      — we have <em class="calibre7">no idea</em> what Harry is telling him right
      now!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Minister sat back, a worried frown creasing her brow for the
      first time since Malfoy had entered her office. "I cannot believe
      Harry would willfully disregard the International Statute of
      Wizarding Secrecy just to find out what some Muggle knows about a
      memory code phrase he used as a kid. Was there anything this Muggle
      said that would indicate he already knows about magic?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing," Draco shook his head sharply. "He seems completely
      clueless. In fact, the Thomas woman had Obliviated him after he
      stormed into Harry's office demanding to be heard. She was about to
      have him escorted out when he suddenly said, 'Recognition code 927,
      I am a potato,' which Harry overheard and invited him into his
      office for the interview. The Thomas woman —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can call her Ginny," the Minister interrupted, mildly.
      "You've known her long enough, after all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The <em class="calibre7">Thomas woman</em>," Draco continued as if he hadn't
      heard, "went to lunch right after that, to have lunch with her
      brother Ron —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know that," the Minister interrupted in turn. "I saw them in
      Diagon Alley when I stepped out for a quick bite. How is that
      relevant?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She is <em class="calibre7">supposed</em> to be keeping an eye on him for us,"
      Draco gritted icily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is she <em class="calibre7">supposed</em> to go hungry while she does that?"
      Hermione asked, just as coldly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco simmered in impotent rage. "She might've had lunch brought
      up to her," he said. "But fine — you don't share my opinion on the
      obligations of those working for us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't share your distrust of Harry," Hermione smiled at him,
      making Draco even more angry, though he would never show such anger
      towards the Minister of Magic over her husband. Such would not be
      prudent, especially in his line of work, as dangerous as it was.
      Hermione Granger-Potter might be Minister of Magic, but she was
      <em class="calibre7">still</em> a mudblood, no matter <em class="calibre7">what</em> Harry Potter had
      proven to him about blood purity and magic. It was beyond that,
      anyway — who knew where her loyalties lay these days. She might
      even be in on this plot to let the Muggles know about the Wizarding
      World.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sometimes, Draco wished he had never met Harry Potter, or let
      him teach Draco the ways of rationality, no matter what it had
      helped Draco accomplish over the past two decades.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Into his silence, Hermione leaned forward over her desk, her
      eyes staring into his. "Now, was there a <em class="calibre7">point</em> to you
      bursting into my office, Draco, or must I guess what you want me to
      do about this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm going to contact Harry's director of operations and see
      what he suspects about what's going on," Draco answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't need me for that," Hermione pointed out. "So you're
      saying that you burst in here just because you had no idea what
      Harry was doing, and you wanted me to give you some insight into
      his thinking, because we're married?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Draco said. <em class="calibre7">Even though that was the reason he was
      here</em>. "I wanted you to be aware that your husband may be very
      close to breaking international Wizarding law."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then you should go and make sure the Auror Department can prove
      that to the Wizengamot," Hermione suggested, dryly. She then looked
      away from Draco, back at what she'd been doing before he entered
      her office. "And close the door on your way out, please."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a moment Draco nodded, stiffly, then strode silently to
      the door, pulling it shut after him. Hermione took out her wand,
      pointed it at the door, and said, "<em class="calibre7">Colloportus</em>," followed
      by several additional spells that she only used when she needed a
      <em class="calibre7">very</em> private conversation with her husband. Whatever Harry
      was up to, she needed to let him know that the Aurors were looking
      very closely at him (and probably at her as well — there were some
      downsides to having someone like Draco Malfoy running the Auror
      Department.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A secret?" Monroe looked interested despite himself. "As a
      journalist, you should know that my primary objective is to
      <em class="calibre7">expose</em> secrets, not engage in keeping them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled evilly. "I'm sure you go around exposing your own
      secrets all the time, then, Mr. Monroe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's different," Monroe retorted. "Of course everyone has
      secrets they would rather not have anyone know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Would you like to trade, one of mine for one of yours?" Harry
      asked, then waved off the look of indignation on Monroe's face.
      "I'm just kidding. But not about my secret. I do want to know where
      you heard that recognition code, but I have to show you a few
      things first before we get to that. I want you to understand that
      you'll be perfectly safe while we figure that out." Harry stood and
      walked to the wall of the private dining area furthest from the
      door they entered, then gestured for Monroe to join him as he took
      something from one of his pockets. Curious, Monroe picked up his
      recording pen from the table then stepped closer, watching as Harry
      waved the object, a long piece of thin wood, at the wall. A moment
      later Monroe caught his breath in stunned surprise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A rectangular section of the wall sank inward, then slid to one
      side, revealing a much larger area beyond. "My private work area,"
      Harry said, putting away the stick of wood into a pocket that
      looked too small to hold it. For that matter, Monroe remembered, he
      was sure Harry's office had been on a corner of the building they
      were in — <em class="calibre7">where</em> was the room for this workspace coming
      from?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The room must've been the size of a football field (perhaps he
      should say, soccer field, since the room was nearly as wide as it
      was long) over a hundred yards long and 80 to 90 yards wide. It
      looked to be perhaps 15 to 20 yards to the ceiling, from which long
      arrays of lights had turned on as the door opened, illuminating the
      entire area. There were dozens of workbenches scattered throughout
      the room, some with easily recognizable devices on them such as
      oscilloscopes, digital signal generators, and Fourier analyzers.
      Other benches had much weirder items on them — silver or gold
      mechanisms that spun or reciprocated, disgorging bursts of smoke or
      steam in odd patterns. Monroe could hear a dizzying cacophony of
      beeps, burps, toots, and even glorps, goops and splurts coming from
      nearly every bench near them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He turned to Harry in utter confusion. "What the hell do you do
      in here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was grinning a conspiratorial grin. "That's part of the
      big secret I've got for you, to show you what goes on in here." But
      when Monroe started into the room, Harry put a hand on his
      shoulder, stopping him. "That is, if we have an agreement that
      you'll let me figure out where you heard that recognition code.
      Deal or no deal?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe, now intensely curious what was going on in Harry's vast
      workroom, nevertheless gave him an apprehensive look. "What if some
      goon squad stops me on my way out of here afterwards, and takes my
      Record-A-Pen away from me? Then you've got my proof that any of
      this happened." He patted the Pen, now in his jacket pocket.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have my word that no one will take your pen away from you,"
      Harry promised. He even put one hand in the air, as if he were
      formally swearing to that fact.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe nodded, seemingly convinced. Even if Potter was lying, he
      knew, he had an ace up his sleeve — literally, as a backup
      recording device was sown into the lining of his jacket, much more
      sophisticated electronics device capable of picking up sounds up to
      a hundred yards away, using his entire jacket as a omnidirectional
      microphone. It was shielded as well, as an RFID device, so even if
      Potter's bug detectors picked it up they would think it was
      harmless.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, then," he answered. "It's a deal." He extended his hand,
      and Harry shook it. <em class="calibre7">Now let's see whether he'll keep this
      deal</em>, Monroe thought to himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come on in," Harry gestured for Monroe to follow as he stepped
      into the workroom. "Let's see," he pondered, looking around slowly.
      "How can I explain what I'm doing in here? Hmm. Ah!" He pointed to
      a nearby workbench. "There's just the thing, something I came up
      with a few years ago for the Ministry, though they decided not to
      use it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe followed Harry to a nearby workbench, where Harry picked
      up a cylindrical object from the bench and handed it to Monroe.
      "What do you think that is?" he asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe examined the item carefully. It was a metal cylinder
      about a foot long, surprisingly lightweight for its size, with
      rounded ridges along the length of the cylinder, presumably for a
      better grip. There were a couple of switches near the top, one a
      toggle and the other a short slider. There was also a small readout
      near the top. Remaining Battery life? Monroe flipped the cylinder
      around so he could look at the top. He expected to find a lens and
      bulb, but there was only a translucent white covering there,
      slightly concave. To direct the beam better? "Is it a flashlight
      —?" Monroe began, his finger reaching for the toggle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry reached out and blocked his thumb from flipping the
      toggle, pulling the object out of his hand. "Wrong guess," he said.
      "And you <em class="calibre7">don't</em> want this pointing at your head when you
      turn it on, by the way." He pointed the cylinder away from both of
      them, into empty air, and flipped the switch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A beam of golden light extended from the end of the cylinder,
      reaching twice the length of the cylinder before abruptly stopping.
      Monroe stared at it, mouth agape, as Harry waved it momentarily. A
      humming sound came from the blade, its pitch rising and falling as
      Harry he moved it. "What does this remind you of?" Harry asked,
      expectantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's — it's a light saber," Monroe muttered, almost in shock.
      "But — you can't <em class="calibre7">do</em> that with lasers! They're a beam of
      light, not a solid object with a specific length! <em class="calibre7">How can you
      be doing that</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Magic," Harry said, happily. He switched the toggle again and
      the beam disappeared. "You're right — science could never do
      something like that. But magic has no such restrictions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Magic…" Monroe looked utterly baffled by what Harry had just
      said. "You mean <em class="calibre7">magic</em> magic, not Keith Barry or David
      Blaine magic, right?" His vision was beginning to gray out — this
      was utterly beyond anything that had ever happened to him before.
      He looked around for a chair to sit on, and one was suddenly at his
      side. He plopped down in it, holding his head, which was still
      whirling with the idea of a magical light saber. He looked up at
      last, mustering his calm and rationality once again. "I'm still not
      sure about this," he said. "Because it's possible you could be
      fooling me about that light saber somehow, you know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, let's try something else, then," Harry said, taking out
      the wooden stick he'd put in his pocket a minute ago. He waved it
      at Monroe. "<em class="calibre7">Wingardium Leviosa</em>!" Monroe rose out of the
      chair about a foot in the air, still in sitting position.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Holy crap!" Monroe shouted. "Am I floating?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did I have a chance to attach any wires to you?" Harry asked.
      "I don't think —" There was a short buzzing sound, like a cell
      phone. "Just a second," he said. "I have to take this." He reached
      into a pocket and took out a small rectangular object, putting it
      to his ear. At the same time his wand made a quick series of
      movements while still pointed at the journalist. Monroe, meanwhile,
      was looking around himself in near panic, trying to figure out what
      was holding him up. He looked down at Harry and said, "—-" but
      nothing came out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, hello, love," Harry said, smiling as he spoke into the
      phone. "Yes, I'm still doing the interview… No, not at all, nothing
      like that! He is? Well, he's always suspicious of me — probably
      just jealous I'm a captain of industry and he's a government
      employee… Yes, dear, I know you're one too, I was just… Yes, you're
      right, I'm sorry… Okay, love, see you this evening. Bye. Love you
      too, bye."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry put away the phone as Monroe was lowered to the floor. He
      put his hand to his throat. "Testing, one, two, three," he said,
      then glowered at Harry. "I tried to say something while you were on
      the phone but I couldn't! What did you do to me? More magic?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I couldn't have you spilling the beans while I was talking with
      my wife," Harry answered, as he slid the wooden stick he was
      holding back into a pocket that was still clearly too small to hold
      it. "She thinks we're just having a regular interview."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe made a quick deduction. "You're not supposed to be
      telling me any of this, are you? That's why nobody ever heard of
      this — this magic or people who could…perform it…" That was a
      pretty big implication, if true. How many people <em class="calibre7">were</em>
      there out there, who could do this kind of stuff?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry made a gesture of indifference. "There are some among us
      who think that people knowing that real magic exists will bring
      about chaos and distrust among magical and non-magical people, and
      eventually destroy us all. I happen to think people are smarter
      than that, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But telling <em class="calibre7">me</em>?" Monroe looked skeptical. "I'm just a
      writer for some Singularity magazine, not even one of the major
      players in the field. Why would you pick me to deliver this news to
      the world? I notice that I am confused."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry jerked, startled. "<em class="calibre7">What</em> did you just say?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I notice that I am confused," Monroe repeated. "People are more
      often confused by fiction than they are by facts —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're doing it again!" Harry almost shouted. "I'd almost think
      we read the same authors, except that I've never heard that
      recognition code mnemonic anywhere except when I said it! I really
      have to know how you heard that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I guess we ought to discuss that, then," Monroe suggested.
      "Just how are you going to 'magic' that memory out of my head?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's pretty simple," Harry said. "I have a device that we can
      use to view your memories of —" Harry stopped as a buzzer abruptly
      sounded. "<em class="calibre7">Now</em> what?" he muttered, through clenched teeth.
      "It seems like <em class="calibre7">nobody</em> trusts me these days!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is it," Monroe asked, then stepped back involuntarily as
      Harry pulled out his wooden stick again, pointing it at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry," Harry said. "I have to hide you. Unavoidable — I'll be
      back in a minute or so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even as Monroe shook his head to stop Harry from magicking him
      again, his body suddenly stiffened, his arms snapping down to his
      sides. He began to tip over, and though Monroe tried to cry out in
      alarm no sound came from his mouth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before he hit the floor, however, his body suddenly stopped,
      then continued rotating until he was floating in the air again,
      this time face up. The buzzer sounded again, this time somehow more
      insistently. Harry floated Monroe onto an empty bench top, and
      everything suddenly went silent. A moment later Harry had covered
      Monroe with a silvery, semi-transparent material, then walked
      away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">How was this hiding him</em>? Monroe wondered. Wouldn't a
      man-sized object covered with a silver sheet be pretty
      noticeable?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry walked over to the workroom's exit, waving his wand at the
      door, which slid open. On the other side was his Operations
      Director, Dean Thomas. "Harry," he nodded at him, casually. "How're
      things going today?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Never better! Harry replied, brightly. "What can I do for you,
      Dean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Head Auror Malfoy just sent me a note, sir," Dean told him. "He
      said they noticed at the Ministry that that journalist, James
      Monroe, who entered the building before lunch this morning still
      hasn't left."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He hasn't," Harry agreed. "We're still conducting the
      interview."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where is he?" Dean asked, leaning forward slightly to glance
      around the room. Harry made no move to prevent him. "He's not in
      <em class="calibre7">here</em>, is he, Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why would he be in here, Dean?" Harry asked, innocence written
      all over his face. "He's just a Muggle — he has no reason to know
      about magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well —" Dean hesitated a moment. "There was something about a
      recognition code…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry raised an eyebrow. "Oh? Have you been talking to Ginny
      during lunch?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, no…" Dean began. Was <em class="calibre7">Ginny</em> in on what Malfoy
      suspected Harry was doing? He certainly hoped not! Malfoy was a
      good Head Auror, but he did have a tendency toward vindictiveness,
      especially against former Gryffindors. Not to mention Harry as
      well. "I haven't seen her since we got to the office this
      morning…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's what I thought," Harry nodded, in a musing tone. "Well,
      tell Malfoy that he's still here with me, and we'll be finishing up
      the interview in an hour or so. Tell him I'm finding it quite
      fascination, much more interesting than I expected it would be.
      That should really twist his tail."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dean grinned. "I expect it will, sir. Thank you." The door slid
      shut. Harry shook his head once, then went back to the work bench
      where Monroe lay paralyzed by the <em class="calibre7">Petrificus Totalus</em>
      curse. He pulled the silvery covering off the journalist, then
      pointed his wand at Monroe's motionless form and said, "<em class="calibre7">Finite
      Incatatem</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a moment Monroe, realizing he could move again, sat up on
      the bench and glared angrily at Harry. "What was <em class="calibre7">that</em>
      about?" he shouted. "I couldn't move or hear a thing!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For you own protection," Harry said. "Or rather, mine, since
      you're not supposed to be in here. If my Operations Director saw
      you in here he'd be duty-bound to report me to the Ministry or face
      charges himself of conspiracy, and there's no point to letting
      anyone except me get in trouble for this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You might have mentioned that before you brought me in here!"
      Monroe said, loudly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"On the other hand, you should be convinced by now that magic is
      real, am I right about that?" Harry pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well…yeah, I suppose," Monroe admitted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good," Harry said, turning and gesturing for Monroe to follow
      him. He led the Muggle to a far corner of the workroom, where a
      tall, black cabinet stood against a wall with a square table a few
      yards from it. Opening the cabinet with a wave of his wand, Harry
      took out a shallow stone bowl, with odd-looking symbols carved
      around its lip, and placed it on the table between him and Monroe.
      Inside the bowl Monroe could see a swirling silvery essence, like
      light made liquid. He looked up at Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What — what is this thing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This, Mr. Monroe," Harry said with a smile. "Is a
      Pensieve."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
