<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos - Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos Chapter 21: The Ginny Factor, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s21" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 21: The Ginny Factor</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Updated</em> 9/29/2012</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, so what do we do now?" Monroe wanted to know.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "I don't know if we need to do anything," he
      replied, casually. "You can't get into the Room of Requirement
      unless you know exactly what someone who's already inside needed. I
      would defy anyone to guess that we've summoned the essences of the
      four Founders to teach us pre-Interdict spell magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe nodded ruefully; Harry had a point. "But that means we're
      stuck in here until they go away," he also pointed out. "All Malfoy
      has to do is rotate his Aurors to guard the entrance until we have
      to leave."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why would we have to leave?" Harry asked, in a bland tone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, because —" Monroe stopped and smiled. "You're right, we
      don't." The pre-Interdict spells and rituals they'd learned would
      allow them to stay here almost indefinitely. They could summon
      food, water, and most importantly, <em class="calibre7">more</em> books with
      pre-Interdict spells in them, and have the Founders read them to
      Harry and him. And now, with their newly-Memory Enhanced minds,
      they would remember <em class="calibre7">every single</em> spell, ritual, and potion
      recipe they learned. "So what do we do next?" he asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry thought for a while. "I don't know at the moment," he
      finally said. "Let me think about it a bit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Revealment spells cast toward the wall where the Room of
      Requirement was supposed to appear showed nothing and no one beyond
      it, even though this was the last known location of James
      Monroe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is there any way we can find out who's in there?" Malfoy asked
      Neville.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Other than having them tell us, or figuring out exactly what
      they're using the room for, I doubt it," Neville replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We could break through," Crabbe suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Both Neville and Malfoy shook their heads. "I can't authorize
      that," Draco said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I wouldn't allow it," Neville said, in a stern voice.
      Malfoy gave him an amused look but didn't argue the point. He
      turned to the other Aurors. "Suggestions, gentlemen?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Aurors shook their heads. "Headmaster?" Malfoy turned to
      Neville once again. "Anything you can think of? What about that
      magical security system, can it tell us who's inside?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I've already told you so," Neville answered, annoyed. "It
      can tell us everyone who's on school grounds, but the Weasleys
      could never make it work for the Room of Requirement. It can't see
      inside there at all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco could see a way around that limitation, however. "It can
      tell us everyone who's entered Hogwarts but hasn't left," he
      pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville blinked. "Of course," he nodded. "Security," he said.
      "Tell us everyone who has entered Hogwarts and has not left
      yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Vincent Crabbe," the cool voice recited. "Gregory Goyle, Draco
      Malfoy, James Monroe, Harry Potter —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop!" Draco called out, and Neville echoed the order, stopping
      the recitation. "That's interesting," he smirked. "Potter came
      back, apparently. Find out when he returned," he told Neville, who
      repeated the question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry Potter entered Hogwarts at twelve-fifteen a.m. this
      morning," the Security voice replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why didn't you tell me he'd returned when I asked you earlier?"
      Neville demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your question about Harry Potter's arrivals and departures from
      Hogwarts referred to yesterday, not today," the cool voice replied.
      Neville snorted annoyance, shaking his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So Potter and Monroe are in there," Malfoy pondered, staring at
      the blank wall. "But we can't make them come out and we can't get
      inside unless we know what they're using the Room for. That's a
      pretty problem."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure we can't just bust in?" Crabbe muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">No</em>," Neville said. "You're not destroying the Room of
      Requirement —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not if we can help it," Malfoy finished. "But if they're doing
      something in there that might compromise the Interdict of Merlin
      —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what do you think something like that would take?" Neville
      interrupted in turn. "Wizards have been studying the Interdict for
      800 years now; its scope has expanded from Britain to nearly the
      entire world — only the most remote, inaccessible reaches of the
      earth have not been touched by it. Since it has a limiting effect
      on the ability to communicate magical knowledge except from one
      mind to another, it is likely to remain in place forever."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't know that," Malfoy objected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">You're</em> the one that was with Harry when he figured all
      that out, back in our first year!" Neville countered. "Magical
      knowledge is being limited and lost over time! If you destroyed the
      Room of Requirement, for example, it's likely it could never be
      restored again — that's why you're not going to break into it!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm going to do what I have to, to bring Potter in!" Malfoy
      shouted back. "And he's going to find that out, right now!" He
      stepped close to the wall, then brought his wand up to his throat
      and cast <em class="calibre7">Sonorus</em>. He spoke, his amplified voice ringing
      throughout the corridor. "<em class="calibre7">Attention, occupants of the Room of
      Requirement. This is Head Auror Malfoy of the Ministry of Magic.
      You are hereby ordered to come out immediately</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was no response, but Malfoy hadn't really expected on.
      "<em class="calibre7">If you do not comply immediately, we will be forced to close
      down the school at once until you</em> do <em class="calibre7">comply. All students
      will be dismissed and a permanent squad of Aurors will stand guard
      at the entrance until you surrender yourself to us</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Closing the school?" Neville said after uncovering his ears,
      when Malfoy finished speaking. "Is that really necessary?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy pulled the wand away from his throat. "Without breaking
      down the wall, it's the best idea I've got. Don't forget,
      Headmaster, <em class="calibre7">you</em> have a reason to want them out of that
      room, too — I assume Potter didn't tell you he was planning to go
      in the Room of Requirement when he showed up here yesterday."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Neville had to admit. "He said he was going to show Monroe
      the Chamber of Secrets."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So he betrayed your trust," Malfoy pointed out. "And you, one
      of his Chaos Legionaires to boot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Save your manipulations, Malfoy," Neville growled, but there
      was an uneasy expression on his face. "Harry must've had a good
      reason."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's what I'm worried about," Malfoy muttered. He turned to
      his men. "Dawlish, you and Goyle remain here on guard. Don't let
      any students or staff in this corridor until I return." Both men
      nodded. "Crabbe, you and I are going back to headquarters, I want
      you to work out a schedule to have at least two men here round the
      clock until further notice. I'll work out the details of the
      closing with the Board of Governors of the school."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm coming with you," Neville announced, firmly. "I've got some
      things to say to the Board of Governors about that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Suit yourself," Malfoy shrugged. He and Crabbe walked off,
      followed by the Headmaster, leaving Dawlish and Goyle alone in the
      corridor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was several minutes before anyone spoke again in the
      seventh-floor corridor. Goyle had shaken his head after Malfoy and
      the others left, then took up a position near the wall across from
      the tapestry, but after a minute shook his head again and conjured
      a stool to sit on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dawlish watched this as he leaned against the same wall a short
      distance away, one eyebrow raised in a silent commentary. Goyle
      noticed this but pretended not to; he didn't care much for Dawlish,
      who was often overly critical of younger Aurors. When he and Crabbe
      had finally been admitted to Auror Training, after spending time
      with a private tutor who made sure they passed the requisite number
      of N.E.W.T.s needed during a special test session of the
      Examination Authority, Dawlish had been their squad instructor.
      Training under him had not been pleasant.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Goyle finally said, annoyed at the half-smirk on the
      older Auror's face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dawlish shook his head. "Nothing, son," he said with a shrug,
      but a moment later added, "I just noticed that Crabbe once again
      got the nod from the Head over you. That seems to happen quite a
      bit, doesn't it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not a big deal," Goyle said. "Vinnie's got seniority." <em class="calibre7">But
      not by much</em>, Goyle reminded himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, if you're okay with it." Dawlish looked left and right
      down the corridor they were in. "Students will be up and about
      soon," he noted. "This wasn't a highly-used section of the seventh
      floor in my day, but there are staircases to other level accessible
      through this corridor — we should start getting some traffic
      soon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, you're the senior Auror here," Goyle pointed out. "How
      d'you want to handle it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dawlish pointed down the corridor. "Most students will be coming
      from that direction," he said. "Go round the corner to the first
      intersection and stand guard there. Tell students this corridor is
      blocked until further notice. I'll do the same at the other
      end."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Goyle folded his arms across his chest. "The Head wanted us
      remain <em class="calibre7">here</em> on guard," he reminded Dawlish.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He also said don't let any students or staff in this corridor
      until he returned," Dawlish countered. "We can't stay here and do
      that as well. Don't worry, son, I'll take full responsibility."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Goyle smirked at the older Auror's attempt at manipulation, but
      shrugged and walked off down the corridor in the direction Dawlish
      had pointed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Goyle rounded the corner, Dawlish pointed his wand in that
      direction and softly spoke two Charms — a Silencing Charm and an
      Anti-Wizard Charm. Goyle would not hear anything coming from this
      corridor; if he tried to return he would experience a compulsion to
      move away, just as Muggles did when they ran into a
      Muggle-Repelling Charm. He cast the same two charms at the other
      end of the corridor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An unpleasant sensation was beginning to well up inside Dawlish.
      The hour was almost up, he knew — it was good he'd gotten rid of
      Goyle when he did, and that Malfoy and Longbottom had gone back to
      the Ministry. The hardest part of this mission was about to get
      underway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anything yet?" Monroe finally asked, after a minute or more of
      silence in the Room of Requirement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry muttered irritably. "Stop pestering me!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, we've got to come up with <em class="calibre7">something</em>," Monroe
      persisted, ignoring Harry's irritation. "We don't want Malfoy
      knowing we've found a way around the Interdict, and we
      <em class="calibre7">certainly</em> don't want him talking to these statues!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know all that!" Harry snapped. "I did the same Memory
      Enhancing ritual you did! We memorized all the Interdicted spells
      in these books —" he gestured at the pile of old books on the table
      before them. "There ought to be <em class="calibre7">something</em> we can do to get
      out of here!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There undoubtedly is," Monroe agreed. "But we're just not
      seeing it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dozens of powerful spells were swimming around in their brains
      now: how to perform Permanent Transfiguration and Conjuration
      spells, how to summon objects from anywhere, instantly, if you knew
      where it was. Spells that would make you immune to almost any
      magical disease or illness, or allow you to extend the lifetime of
      a normal wizard by three or four times. Spells to cure near- and
      farsightedness or hearing loss, and rituals that extend those
      senses well beyond the limit of human ability, though those rituals
      would shorten your life significantly — sacrifice for gain being a
      necessary part of any ritual.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe they can," Harry said, pointing to the four statues of
      the Founders. He addressed them once again. "O Founders, can you
      tell us of a way to leave this room and Hogwarts without disturbing
      any of the wards on the castle or grounds? This is something we
      very much need to do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We Founders created this Room as a place of final refuge here
      at Hogwarts," the statue of Rowena Ravenclaw spoke. "Wards do not
      penetrate this room, nor can any scyring or detection perceive
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But the rest of the castle is dedicated to the will of the
      current Headmaster; it is protected however he or she sees fit to
      do so. The current headmaster has added a new protection, one that
      perceives the mind of any sentient being within its range, and can
      describe and show where that being is on a representation of the
      castle's construction."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was dumbfounded. "You mean like a <em class="calibre7">map</em>?" he asked,
      in shock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Gryffindor's statue answered. "Similar to the one you
      carry in your bag of holding."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe raised an eyebrow. "How did you —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That tricky bastard," Harry said, though he was grinning now.
      "Neville added a Marauder's Map to the castle security! I wonder if
      he got Fred and George to do that for him — they were the only ones
      who know what that Map could do, other than Dumbledore
      himself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Does Neville know where we are now?" Monroe asked, nervously.
      It wasn't clear whether he was asking Harry or the Founders.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe not," it was Harry who answered. "If you're in the Room
      of Requirement you're not visible on the Marauder's Map, so if he
      asked his version of the Map it wouldn't show either of us. I
      suppose the question then is, would he wonder whether we're in the
      Room or not?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Would Malfoy?" Monroe asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Crap," Harry muttered. "Of course he would, if Neville told him
      about the new security system. Malfoy knows the Room exists, and
      I'm pretty sure he knows about my Marauder's Map, much as I wished
      he didn't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a long pause.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So," Monroe finally spoke again. "We need a way to get out of
      this room and out of Hogwarts without alerting the new security
      system or passing through any part of the school outside this room.
      You know, that seems like a rather simple answer: Portkey."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry immediately objected. "We would have to Portkey
      entirely out of Britain — remember , the Ministry can track
      unauthorized Portkey use anywhere in Britain now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't know that," Monroe said. "When did that start?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lord Malfoy got it pushed through the Ministry last month,"
      Harry replied. "Draco wrote the law, of course. They saw it as a
      way to hurt me, to keep me from traveling back and forth between
      here and Europe, looking for Interdict-protected spell books."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought you already had all the Interdict-protected spell
      books between Britain and the Far East," Monroe said, and Harry
      smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Most of them," he agreed. "Malfoy has most of the rest, I'd bet
      — he's been scrounging them up nearly as long as I have, mostly
      trying to figure out what I'm doing with them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Interesting," Monroe said, though he didn't sound particularly
      interested at the moment. "But this isn't helping us figure out a
      way out of here. So if we can't Portkey to anywhere in Britain,
      what about somewhere in Europe or Scandinavia, or even
      America?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry pondered that for a moment. It <em class="calibre7">seemed</em> like a good
      idea…but his newly-eidetic memory finally settled on a detail. "But
      we'll still have to get back into Britain, and we won't be able to
      use a Portkey — we'll have to come in using another mode of
      transportation. Brooms would take too long, and we'll be recognized
      if we arrange for Floo travel or Apparate through Iceland."
      Reykjavík was a well-known stopover between the Americas and
      Britain and the European and Scandinavian Wizarding communities; it
      was also extensively warded to protect against unauthorized wizard
      travel.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It sounds like we're stuck here, then," Monroe threw up his
      hands. "Are Malfoy and his men still outside the room?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll check." Harry recast the powerful detection spell that let
      him see through the wall. "Hmm — no, there's only one person out
      there now, and he — no, <em class="calibre7">she</em>, is on the floor for some
      reason… what the hell?" Harry turned to Monroe. "Holy crap, it's
      Ginny!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginny?!" Monroe was as shocked as Harry. "How'd she get in
      here? And where are Malfoy and his men?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head, still watching as Ginny picked herself off
      the floor and turned to the wall between them. She put her wand up
      to her throat and said in a magically-amplified voice,
      "<em class="calibre7">Harry</em>? <em class="calibre7">James</em>? <em class="calibre7">Are either of you in
      there</em>? <em class="calibre7">Can you hear me</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry put his own wand to his throat and silently cast
      <em class="calibre7">Sonorus</em>. "<em class="calibre7">We're here, Ginny</em>! <em class="calibre7">How'd you find
      us</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">How about letting me in before Malfoy or one of his men
      come back and find me out here</em>?" she asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry gesture and Monroe opened the door to the Room, letting
      Ginny step inside. She was breathing heavily and rubbing her
      forehead. "Thanks," she said as she stepped past Monroe and into
      the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you okay?" Harry asked her, concerned. "You look a bit
      pale."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay," she nodded. "Just the effects of Polyjuice wearing off.
      I was pretending to be someone else so I could walk through the
      castle unnoticed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I saw," Harry told her. "I was watching you just a minute ago,
      you were in the middle of changing form."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh?" Ginny looked at the wall, then back at Harry. "What, did
      you finally figure out how to add X-ray vision to your glasses,
      then?" At that moment she noticed the four statues of the Founders
      and fell silent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, no, it's a spell from one of these books," Harry said
      excitedly, picking up one of the ancient leather-bound volumes.
      "See what we found?" He pointed to the statues she was staring at.
      "The Founders put some of their essence into these four statues,
      and they can talk to us!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Like Horcruxes," Ginny said quietly. "Are you sure it's a good
      idea, talking to them, Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, they <em class="calibre7">aren't</em> Horcruxes," Harry averred. "They
      insisted they didn't use that ritual to create these statues."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you believed them?" Ginny said, giving Harry a skeptical
      look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I believed them!" Harry said, indignant. "They've helped
      us learn a lot of new spells since we've come here. Spells from
      before the Interdict of Merlin! Powerful spells, a lot more
      powerful than the most powerful spells we have today."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you've found a way round the Interdict, then," Ginny said,
      thoughtfully. "Congratulations, Harry! I know you've been looking
      for that for a long time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"James actually found them," Harry said, pointing to Monroe. "I
      left him here when I came to help you out at TBC yesterday."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, so you were <em class="calibre7">here</em>, then?" Ginny asked. "The Aurors
      came round last night after dinner, asking questions about a letter
      Malfoy received that suggested you were visiting the Chamber of
      Secrets here at Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did they?" Harry frowned, hearing that. "I only told
      <em class="calibre7">you</em> we were doing that, Ginny."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I had lunch with Ron on Saturday," Ginny explained. "I may have
      mentioned it to him. The Auror interrogating me asked a lot of
      questions about Ron and the letter. I think they suspected him of
      writing it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ron." Harry's voice was tight. "I knew he didn't like me, but I
      didn't think he'd stoop to <em class="calibre7">informing</em> on me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It looks that way," Ginny said, apologetically. "I'm sorry,
      Harry. I've told him some things over the past few months, but I
      didn't know he was giving that information to the Ministry! I don't
      think Ron has any proof, though, beyond what I may have told
      him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Finding proof is what Malfoy does," Harry growled. "Whether he
      has to make it up or not. No wonder he's been after me so hard
      these past few months!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We should get out of here, you know," Ginny said, looking at
      the table filled with books and the four statues of the Founders.
      "But it's just so amazing that you've found a way to beat the
      Interdict! How did you do it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She's right," Monroe put in. "We <em class="calibre7">should</em> get out of
      here while we have the chance."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We found out that the Founders statues can read spells from
      these books!" Harry said, proudly, ignoring Monroe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you just show them a spell and they read it to you," Ginny
      surmised.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If they can," Harry nodded. "Not all of them know every spell,
      but I think there were only one or two spells none of them
      knew."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's very interesting," Ginny said, looking at the books on
      the table. "But you couldn't have memorized them all in this short
      a time, could you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We were lucky," Harry grinned. "One of the spells we found
      straightaway was a Memory-Enhancing Ritual. Monroe and I both
      performed it, it seemed like a quick way to memorize all the
      spells, and the best thing was, there was no sacrifice required for
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny raised an eyebrow. "There's almost always a sacrifice
      during a ritual, Harry. Dark rituals require it, and most other
      rituals involve a sacrifice of some sort, even a small one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Slytherin statue read that one to us," Monroe remembered.
      "He didn't say anything about a sacrifice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny picked up a book from the table and began flipping through
      the pages. She held out the book toward Harry. "Is that the spell
      he read to you?" she asked, pointing to a spell at the bottom of
      the page.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked. "Right," he said. "That's the one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny flipped to the next page. "What's it say at the top
      there?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry peered at the words for several seconds. They were
      gibberish. "I can't read it," he said, looking up at her with a
      puzzled expression.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny shook her head sadly. "That's probably where the sacrifice
      is mentioned," she said, looking at Harry with concern. "You didn't
      have him read the entire ritual." She walked over to the statue of
      Salazar Slytherin. "Read this," she commanded, pointing to the text
      Harry couldn't read.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was silence for several seconds, but the Slytherin statue
      finally began to read.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Beware ye casters, who seek to improve thy
      recollection,<br class="calibre4"/></em><em class="calibre7">A price to be paid for the skillfulness
      of thy reflections,<br class="calibre4"/></em><em class="calibre7">Though ye shall remember all that
      ye have learned<br class="calibre4"/></em><em class="calibre7">Yet your wisdom shall be halved,
      never to be returned.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Monroe looked at each other, aghast. "Shit," Harry
      breathed. "<em class="calibre7">That's</em> why it's been so hard to figure out what
      to do!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, I'm so sorry," Ginny said, looking as devastated as
      Harry felt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Never mind that now," Harry said, grimly. "We need to get out
      of here, <em class="calibre7">now</em>, before Malfoy returns and finds us here.
      Even if he can prove we were in the castle, we had permission to be
      here. And nobody can prove we were inside the Room of Requirement
      unless they come across the exact room we were in, and that's
      pretty unlikely."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The question is, how do we do that?" Monroe asked. "If the
      staff's been alerted to our presence here they're not going to let
      us walk without trying to stop us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think I have a way," Ginny said. "Harry, do you have your
      Cloak of Invisibility?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In my pouch," Harry nodded. "And the Marauder's Map. We can
      sneak out beneath it, is that what you're thinking?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not really," Ginny disagreed. "The staff will be looking for
      something like that. I think we'll have to be rather bold, to do
      something unexpected, to get by them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Like what?" Both Harry and Monroe said at the same time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've got some Polyjuice with me," Ginny replied, taking the
      bottle from her robes. "Have you noticed yet that my robes are for
      someone a bit larger than me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's eyes looked Ginny up and down. "I guess they are," he
      said at last. "Whose clothes are they, anyway?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You'll see," Ginny smiled. "But first, get out your Cloak and
      the Map, and give the Map to me." Harry handed over the Map,
      waiting to hear what her plan was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You and Monroe get under the Cloak," Ginny ordered, and Harry
      threw the silvery material over himself and James. Ginny then held
      up the bottle of Polyjuice as if toasting them. "Cheers," she said,
      and downed the contents of the bottle, grimacing at the taste.
      "Eurgh, that's nasty," she muttered, then clutched her stomach as
      the potion began to take effect.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A minute later she stood transformed before them, a tall,
      stern-faced man with short, gray hair. Harry recognized him as an
      Auror, and wondered to himself how she'd gotten a bit of him for
      the Polyjuice. He'd have to ask her later, he decided, when they
      weren't in such a rush.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny took out her wand and tapped the blank parchment in her
      hand, saying, "I solemnly swear that I am up to no good," in a
      deeper, more gruff-sounding voice than her own. Lines began forming
      across the parchment, showing the Marauder's Map, and the
      stern-faced Auror who Ginny had become studied it for several
      moments before folding it closed again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ready?" Ginny asked the air. Harry and Monroe both nodded, then
      Harry realized they were invisible beneath the Cloak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ready," he said aloud, and Ginny-the-male-Auror turned and
      opened the door, leading them out into the corridor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eileen Weatherly, the fifth year Hufflepuff prefect guarding the
      third floor area near the staircase leading down to the second
      floor, stifled a tired yawn. She hadn't gotten much sleep this
      night, between the alarm that had sounded earlier, just after
      midnight, and arrival of the team of Aurors not long ago that had
      prompted the Headmaster to put all the prefects and staff on
      alert.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But the idea that she might come across Harry Potter was
      exciting. She might not have a chance against him directly, but she
      could call the entire faculty down on him if need be — it was
      doubtful even Harry Potter himself could prevail against every
      teacher in the school. She only had to hope that the old caretaker,
      Filch, wouldn't be the first one to show up, or they were in deep
      dragon dung.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bored, she conjured a bit of parchment and wrote a quick note on
      it with the tip of her wand. <em class="calibre7">Hey Jimmy</em> (her fellow
      prefect, James Brandson) <em class="calibre7">see any sign of Potter yet? I bet I
      catch him before you do</em>! Smiling, she tapped the parchment
      with her wand, and it folded itself into a bird-shape, then flew
      off to where Brandson was patrolling. <em class="calibre7">That</em> should work him
      up a bit, she thought. She and Jimmy were very good friends as well
      as prefects, but there was also a bit of Ravenclaw competitiveness
      in them — both had learned that the Sorting Hat had offered them
      Ravenclaw as well as Hufflepuff, but they had each preferred the
      friendliness of Helga Hufflepuff's House to the intellectual
      in-fighting of the House of Ravenclaw.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A sound reached her from the still dimly-lit corridor where
      she'd just sent the paper bird to Jimmy; it was past dawn by now
      but the sun still wasn't high enough in the sky to light the halls
      of the school adequately. "Who's there?" Eileen asked, raising her
      wand as <em class="calibre7">Lumos</em>-generated light shone from it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"John Dawlish, Ministry Auror," a gruff voice replied, and a
      tall, gray-haired man stepped into the light of her wand. "And who
      are you, young lady?" he asked, stopping several feet from her, his
      wand at his side but ready to use, Weatherly noticed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm Eileen Weatherly," she said, a bit awed by the man's
      presence. "I—I thought the Aurors had left the school."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Head did," the man replied, his voice rough. "We're still
      trying to find Potter and his accomplice, James Monroe. Have you
      seen any sign of either of them?" he asked in an authoritative
      tone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, no," Eileen replied quickly. "I mean, no, <em class="calibre7">sir</em>,"
      she added, remembering to address adults respectfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then she saw something that made her flinch with horror. A
      small paper bird was fly toward her — Jimmy had replied to her not,
      but what a hell of a time for it to happen! The bird had almost
      reached the Auror when he turned suddenly, pointing his wand at the
      magical note. It stopped in mid-air, then fluttered into his hand.
      He tapped it with his wand; it unfolded and he began reading
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eileen wished she could crawl away and died. "My — er, my fellow
      prefect and I sometimes keep in touch that way, whenever we're
      separated," she said, uncomfortably, wishing she could vanish the
      parchment from the Auror's hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A small smile passed across the man's stern features. "It's
      alright, Miss, I'm not going to report you to the Headmaster. But
      stay ready and be prepared to react instantly if you see anything
      out of the ordinary." He took out a large piece of parchment that
      had been hidden within his robes. "I'm going outside the grounds so
      I can call in my notes to the Head, but I'll be back in a while.
      Stay vigilant," he finished, throwing her a salute.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eileen, beaming, saluted in reply, and the tall Auror nodded and
      moved past her, down the staircase and out of sight in the dimness
      of the second floor. She continued beaming, hoping she could spend
      a few moments with him when he returned. Maybe she should look into
      being an Auror herself, she thought excitedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Outside the gates of Hogwarts, which had been unlocked by Hagrid
      before going inside the castle for breakfast, Harry, Monroe and
      Ginny quietly considered their next move. "Now what?" Harry asked,
      his and Monroe's heads peeking out from the Invisibility Cloak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, you can't go home, that's for sure," the form of John
      Dawlish said, rubbing his chin thoughtfully. "Malfoy will have a
      warrant to search your home by now, I suspect."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wish I could talk to Hermione," Harry muttered. "She'd know
      what we should do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't be an idiot," Ginny-Dawlish laughed scornfully. "You
      don't want to get her mixed up in this fiasco. We're —
      <em class="calibre7">you're</em> going to need all the help she can give you as
      Minister of Magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, yeah," Harry agreed, embarrassed he hadn't thought of
      that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are we going to do about the effects of that ritual?"
      Monroe wanted to know.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dunno," Ginny shrugged. "The book said it wasn't reversible,
      didn't it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Harry moaned. "It did. But maybe there's another ritual
      we can use to negate the effects of the Memory Enhancing
      ritual."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe," Ginny agreed. "But it's liable to be one of those
      Interdict-protected spells in one of your books, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rubbed his head in frustration. "I wish I'd never seen
      that damned spell!" he cried out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quiet!" Monroe tried to hush him. "We don't need anyone hearing
      us and coming to investigate!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have a place you can stay," Ginny offered. "It's a small
      apartment in South London — I rented it a few months ago so I could
      spend a night away from Dean from time to time. Nobody knows about
      it but me — and now, you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good idea," Harry said, gratefully. "Thanks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny smiled warmly at Harry. "Well, let's see what you think of
      this one, then. What if I go to your apartment and collect those
      spell books of yours, then sneak back into Hogwarts and have those
      statues read them to me? I can look for a spell to remove that
      Memory-Enhancing ritual from you and Monroe, and then I can teach
      the important spells I learn to you two. It'll be slower without
      the memory ritual, but at least you'd have your intelligence
      back."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at Monroe. "What do you think?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It sounds good to me," Monroe agreed. "If there's any way to
      get our original intelligence back, I'm all for it!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's settled, then!" Ginny said, happily. "Now just let me
      get under the Cloak with you two —" there was a few seconds of
      fumbling about as the tall, male figure slipped between Harry and
      Monroe. The figure of John Dawlish tapped himself with his wand,
      saying "<em class="calibre7">Finite Bibotatem</em>!" then doubled over, falling to
      the ground on his knees and transforming into Ginny Weasley once
      again. Harry and Monroe helped her to her feet, and she slipped her
      arms into theirs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ready?" she asked. "On three, then." Three seconds later they
      were gone.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
