<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos - Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos Chapter 26: Escape from Azkaban, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s26" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 26: Escape from Azkaban</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Updated</em> 3/15/2013</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now," Harry declared forcefully. "We break out of here!" He
      then slumped to the floor next to Sirius. "As soon as I rest for a
      minute."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius didn't answer or acknowledge Harry's statement. He still
      seemed to be thinking about Peter Pettigrew's death — his eyes,
      dark and sunken within their sockets, stared into nothingness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For someone who had spent over <em class="calibre7">35 years</em> in Azkaban,
      Harry reflected, Sirius Black looked amazingly well. He remembered
      what Bellatrix Black had looked like after only a decade — she had
      been more of a corpse than a woman, when Harry first saw her: eyes
      shrunken below their lids, lips so shriveled she might not have
      been able to close them over her teeth, and skin so pale and thin
      it might have been paper stretched over a skeleton. In comparison,
      with the draining effects of the Dementors removed by Harry's
      Patronus, Sirius should have been dancing around the cell right
      now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A while later Harry asked, "Sirius? How do you feel?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius slowly blinked and managed a small shrug. "Better," he
      said, though his expression didn't change. "I don't feel
      <em class="calibre7">them</em> anymore." He blinked again in what was apparently
      confusion about what had just happened. "Where <em class="calibre7">are</em>
      we?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Still in Azkaban," Harry said, matter-of-factly. "But not for
      long — we're getting out of here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Getting out…of Azkaban?" Sirius repeated, slowly. "I — I don't
      know if that's even possible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I think it is," Harry muttered. "I just need a moment to
      figure out what to do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A <em class="calibre7">moment</em>?" Sirius at last looked up at Harry, a look
      of disbelief on his pale, emaciated face. "You're going to need a
      lot longer than a moment, Harry. I've been thinking about it since
      I got here, and I'm still <em class="calibre7">here</em>. Whatever you and your
      shining friend here are planning, it's probably not going to
      work."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">It worked before</em>, Harry thought, remembering the last
      time he was here, but he didn't have the resources that he did back
      then. He'd had his Invisibility Cloak, his mokeskin pouch filled
      with useful items — and a brilliant Defense Against the Dark Arts
      professor who was highly motivated to escape without detection.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What did he have now? A wand taken from a now-dead traitor and a
      man who'd been a prisoner here for 35 years. Plus, he also
      remembered, his own mind and body were crippled because of spells
      that had been placed on him before he'd come here. One of those
      he'd unfortunately cast upon himself, but the other one was the
      work of Voldemort, who'd been possessing the body of Ginny
      Thomas.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Ginny was in Azkaban, too, Harry recalled, sent here for the
      death of three Aurors that Voldemort had murdered while possessing
      her body. He would have to find her, too, and get her out of
      here.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It'll work," Harry insisted stubbornly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's your plan, then?" Sirius asked, doubtfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No idea," Harry said. "I'm still thinking."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps I can be of assistance," another voice spoke. The voice
      had been Harry's, though. Harry looked up in surprise — it had come
      from his Patronus!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius was staring up at the shining humanoid as well. "Who's
      this supposed to be?" he asked. "I didn't think ghosts lasted long
      in Azkaban — the Dementors drain them, too. They either leave or
      eventually they disappear."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's not a ghost," Harry said distractedly. Why had his
      Patronus spoken? Harry hadn't told him to say anything. "He's my
      Patronus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius snorted derisively. "No it's not," he said,
      disbelievingly. "Patronuses are animals, not humans."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I <em class="calibre7">am</em> a Patronus," Harry's Patronus said, directly to
      Sirius. "Harry has several unique abilities, among them the ability
      to produce a True Patronus such as myself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why are you able to speak?" Harry asked. "I didn't think even
      <em class="calibre7">my</em> Patronus had the ability to speak other than to repeat
      what I've told you to say."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It has been some time since you've produced me," the Patronus
      answered. "In fact, since before you left Hogwarts. But I have
      always been within you — growing, learning, maturing. I know much
      has happened to you in just the past few months."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. Looking at his Patronus now, he saw that it was
      more than a mere humanoid shape. He could see feature on it — lips,
      a nose, and even a silvery mop of disheveled hair much like Harry
      had when he was younger. "You even look a bit like me, now," he
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, but unlike you, I do not suffer from the same
      disadvantages you do. I have no physical body — my corporeal form
      is mere appearance — but my mind is the equivalent of yours without
      the disadvantages the Memory Enhancing Ritual imposed upon it. I
      have your full intelligence and memory, and I share your desire to
      leave this place."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded again. "Good," he said. "I've been remembering
      things since I produced you — is that because I'm no longer feeling
      the Dementors' influence?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is, to a degree," the Patronus answered. "But I have also
      been returning some of your memories to you — they were erased by
      Voldemort with a Memory Charm; you would not have remembered them
      except for my retention of them — I am not susceptible to such
      Charms."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius, who had been silent since learning the glowing, silvery
      human was not a ghost, but Harry's Patronus, finally spoke again.
      "Maybe I've been in here too long, but I don't understand a bloody
      thing either of you are saying!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probably not," Harry agreed, "but it would take too long to
      explain right now. Our first priority should be getting out of here
      and finding a safe place for us to stay and recuperate." He looked
      at his Patronus. "Do you have any ideas?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His Patronus nodded slowly. "I have been considering our escape.
      Do you think you can cast a Portkey spell capable of reaching
      northern Scotland?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That won't work," Sirius said immediately. "You can't leave or
      enter Azkaban with a Portkey."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knew that as well, but why would his Patronus suggest it
      in the first place? "He's right, you know," he said to his silvery
      doppleganger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There is one place in Azkaban where magic does not,
      <em class="calibre7">can</em> not persist," the Patronus said. "In the nest of
      Dementors at the bottom of the prison, in its core."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius barked a laugh. "For good reason! Nobody can go down
      there without going catatonic! Even if every Auror in this place
      sent their Patronuses down with you, you couldn't stand to be there
      more than a minute or two before the Dementors would drain you of
      every last bit of happiness and magic! Harry, you can't seriously
      be thinking of trying something as stupid as that, even with this
      Patronus of yours! Like Shiny Bloke said, magic doesn't work there
      anyway!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw what his Patronus was suggesting. "But if the
      Dementors <em class="calibre7">weren't</em> there," he pointed out, "the wards
      preventing a fast exit from Azkaban wouldn't be in effect
      <em class="calibre7">either</em>, and we could create a Portkey and get out of
      here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There are something like 80 or 100 Dementors down there,"
      Sirius argued. "You might hold them off for a bit, but some of them
      would be bound to grab you and — and — K-Kiss you…" He shuddered
      involuntarily. "They would, you know — just to be rid of your
      Patronus. They prefer to do it slowly, though, to drain you a bit
      at a time, enjoying the taste of your happiness."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bollocks," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius looked affronted. "I've been here a lot bloody longer
      than you have, Harry — I ought to know how they think by now!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dementors don't think," Harry retorted. "They never have.
      Wizards just anthropomorphize them because they see a humanoid
      shape and think that a human-like shape means a human-like mind.
      That's not true."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They've spoken to <em class="calibre7">me</em>!" Sirius snarled. "Don't tell me
      they don't speak, Harry! They've taunted me for as long as I've
      been here, reminding me that I'm here because my own kind turned
      against me, threw me in here without a fair trial just to be rid of
      me, to tie up a messy end now that Voldemort was destroyed! And
      they were <em class="calibre7">wrong</em>, weren't they!?" he shouted, slamming his
      claw-like hands down on the steel floor. "Pettigrew's dead now, but
      <em class="calibre7">he</em> should have been in here, not me!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not arguing that," Harry replied, calmly; he'd also
      remembered what happened the last time he'd let his emotions run
      away with him while in Azkaban. "But we have to think about getting
      out of here, not have a row over whether Dementors can speak or
      not. Do you agree?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius still looked angry, though he gave Harry the impression
      that most of his anger was still directed at himself, for killing
      Pettigrew, but he nodded curtly. "Yeah," he muttered at last.
      "Seeing how you and I found one another after all this time, Harry,
      I think we <em class="calibre7">should</em> get out of here if we can."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright," Harry nodded. He looked back at his Patronus, who'd
      been waiting patiently during the argument, and asked, "What is
      your plan to get out of here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We must first locate Ginny Thomas," the Patronus said.
      "Convicted of multiple murders, she is below this level, not far
      from us. We are in the C-spiral, third level of the prison. I would
      seek her out alone, but if I am not in your presence you will feel
      the effects of the Dementors once again. You both must go with me.
      After we find her we must travel to the bottommost level of the
      prison, where Harry will remove a section of the wall, revealing
      the nesting place of the Dementors, and I will deal with them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sounds pretty simple, assuming you can pull it off," Sirius
      said skeptically. "But we've got a wand, now, so it shouln't be too
      hard to get out of here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It <em class="calibre7">will</em> work," Harry said, determinedly. "I don't know
      how long I've been in here, but this is the best chance we all have
      of getting out of here, and I'm not going to pass it up!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The trek to the bottom of Azkaban began with the large iron
      padlock that secured the door of Harry's cell. A simple
      <em class="calibre7">Alohomora</em> was sufficient to open it; like nearly every
      other lock in the wizards' prison it had no wards to prevent
      magical unlocking spells from working on it — no spell meant to
      last any length of time could withstand the draining effect of the
      Dementors. Harry followed up that charm with a spell to remove the
      lock from the latch that kept the door from opening, and it fell to
      the metal floor of the corridor with a loud <em class="calibre7">clang</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry winced at the noise, but he hadn't regained enough fine
      control yet to switch to a Levitation Charm in time to prevent the
      lock from falling. They would have to hope that the sound would not
      carry far enough through the metal structure to be heard on the top
      level of the prison where the Aurors guarding them were
      stationed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He pushed the door open a fraction, and Sirius, now transformed
      back into the large, bearlike dog that was his Animagus form,
      softly padded into the corridor beyond to check out the situation.
      Harry had his Patronus move just past the doorway so that both he
      and Sirius remain within its silvery, protective light. As long as
      they were, they would be invisible to the Dementors — more than
      invisible, in fact: the Dementors would not even realize they were
      there anymore, just as they had not been able to see Bellatrix
      Black when she was bathed in his Patronus's light, back when he and
      Quirrell came to rescue her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius returned after perhaps two minutes, transforming back to
      human to report to Harry. "Not much going on out there; I think you
      and I were the only two still alive in this block of cells. I could
      hear someone screaming somewhere down the corridor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The screaming had bothered Harry the first time he'd been here.
      It had been heart-wrenching, in fact. But he had only heard it
      after he'd screwed up their chances of escaping Azkaban without
      being noticed. And it had been Sirius's cousin Bellatrix that had
      caused him to do it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But that had been long ago, from an eleven-year old boy who
      hadn't really thought about the sheer horror a place like Azkaban
      could generate within him. Now it was a quarter-century later, and
      Harry was much better versed in the ways of the world than he had
      been back then. Azkaban was still a horror, one Harry hoped to end
      one day, but it wasn't going to cause him to lose control.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If he did what his Patronus had seemed to imply, once they were
      at the base of the tower, he would make serious progress toward the
      ending of Azkaban.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's go," Harry said, softly, and Sirius, Harry and his
      Patronus stepped into the corridor. They were in a block of eight
      cells, one of several along this side of the three-sided structure,
      and Harry had been in the cell nearest to the inner wall; on the
      other side was the central core of the tower, open at the top. At
      the bottom of that open shaft was the nest of Dementors — a layer
      of dirt that had to be regularly replaced because the presence of
      the Dementors caused it to dissolve into nothingness over time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The corridor they were in was dimly lit in orange light coming
      from gas lamps set along either side of the block. They moved
      slowly to the end of the corridor, where another locked steel door
      blocked their way. Harry made short work of that lock as well,
      catching it this time before it hit the floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then they were in the outer corridor, the one leading along one
      edge of the huge hollow triangular tower. In the silvery light of
      his Patronus Harry could see three other metal doors set along the
      corridor, all on the same side. The opposite side of the corridor
      was a solid steel wall. At either end were the steel doors that led
      to staircases going up or down along the spiral they were in. Now
      for the next order of business…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you know where Ginny is?" Harry asked his Patronus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Patronus seemed to smile slightly before it answered. "Of
      course," it said. "However, she is not in this spiral. We must find
      a way to the A-spiral, and two levels further down."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nearly halfway to the Dementors," Sirius muttered. "How long
      has she been in here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As long as me," Harry said, "but I don't know how long I've
      been here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have been incarcerated here for 37 days," his Patronus
      interjected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's <em class="calibre7">all</em>?" It had seemed like months to Harry —
      years, even. "Can you tell how she's doing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not without going to her," the Patronus answered. "If I leave
      you and Sirius you will experience the full effects of the
      Dementors once again. Sirius could change into his Animagus form,
      but you would be incapacitated after a few minutes. If they sense
      you are out of your cell they will come for you, and if I were not
      present they might choose to Kiss you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What if I cast my Patronus?" Sirius asked. "I feel better now,
      I think I can produce one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There is only one wand," the Patronus pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, yeah. Dammit!" Sirius slapped his forehead with the heel of
      his hand. "I guess I'm not thinking as well as I expected."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You've been here longer," Harry said, almost gently. Then,
      suddenly realizing something, he turned to the Patronus. "Won't
      there be an Auror patrol coming through here soon?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was just thinking that as well," the Patronus answered. "The
      Aurors patrolling this spiral will be bringing water as they renew
      the wards that are kept active to prevent unauthorized access to
      each level. They are scheduled to traverse this level in
      approximately 5 minutes. The patrols in the other levels will be
      moving in parallel. Fortunately, we are in the C-spiral, so the
      levels below us will be clear for approximately 15 minutes if we
      can get through to the A-spiral level below us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How difficult is that going to be?" Harry asked anxiously. His
      brain dimly remembered the ridiculous amount of constraints his
      last passage through Azkaban had been.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It depends on how difficult it is to locate the secret passage
      between the levels," his Patronus answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do you know there's a secret passage?" Sirius asked,
      looking doubtful.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because this structure was built by wizards," the Patronus
      replied, its voice dry rather than the emotionless monotone it
      usually spoke with. "Secret passages are almost <em class="calibre7">de rigeur</em>,
      even for a prison where security is paramount. They will be keyed
      to the Aurors, of course — we may have difficulty locating
      them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius grinned crookedly. "I guess you're right about wizards
      and secret passages," he said. "I remember the fun we had whenever
      we found a new one in Hogwarts! James and I would have races to see
      who could get from Gryffindor Tower to the Great Hall the fastest
      —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not to interrupt your fond memories," Harry said shortly, "but
      we should start <em class="calibre7">looking</em> for that secret passage if we're
      going to be gone when the Aurors get to this level."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Sirius looked around the corridor. "Which way do we go,
      then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The spirals go downward clockwise from the top level," the
      Patronus said. "And the cells are toward the inward edge of each
      level, so that door—" it pointed the door on their right— "will
      lead us downward. However—" it then pointed to the door on the
      left. "I have a intuition we will find the passage to A-spiral in
      that direction."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We should get cracking, then," Harry said, turning that way.
      "We have less than 5 minutes to find it before the Aurors arrive on
      this level."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The three of them — the shining figure of Harry's Patronus, the
      skeletally-thin Animagus, and perhaps the only other innocent man
      in Azkaban — made their way toward the door leading to the
      staircase that would take them upward to the next level of the
      spiral and closer to the Aurors who were approaching from that
      direction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Three pairs of Aurors moved in parallel down the interleaved
      levels of Azkaban Prison's three spirals, each pair staying a bit
      behind the team in the level below them. This sweep was for water
      only, as well as to renew the spells preventing magical entry into
      and exit from the levels, both from outside and between levels of
      the prison itself. It would do no good if intruders could Apparate
      or Portkey between levels and spirals of the prison.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The procedure for this pass was simple: collect the numbered
      bowls left near the entrance of each cell block, then fill each
      bowl with water using <em class="calibre7">Aguamenti</em> and pass it through the
      door of the cell that corresponded to the number on the bowl. If
      there was an empty bowl near the door, take it to be placed at next
      to the block door. If a prisoner forgot to place their bowls next
      to the door they didn't get any more water; it was that simple. It
      didn't take the new prisoners long to figure it out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Auror Xiaoguang (aka "Mike") Li, a veteran of Azkaban of nearly
      20 years, had partnered with Auror Wilhelm Janssen, who had only
      recently been given duty at the prison. Wil was still unused to the
      unsettling effects of being so close to Dementors for an extended
      period of time; his silver cockatiel wavered unsteadily even though
      Li had him stay near the block door, as far from the Dementors as
      possible while still in view of both the cell block and the outside
      corridor. Li's own silver badger was emitting a soft, steady glow,
      protecting him and Janssen from the effects of the Dementors
      below.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Li returned with three water bowls, the current count of
      still-living prisoners in this block. By and large the prisoners
      managed to stay alive longer these days than they had when Li had
      first come to Azkaban. In those days, if you were put in the
      wizards' prison it was to do real hard time — hardly any prisoners
      had survived from those days. Li remembered stories he'd read in
      the Prophet about a <em class="calibre7">twelve-year old</em> girl the Wizengamot
      almost sentenced to Azkaban — she had gone on years later to become
      Minister of Magic. She had only recently resigned after her
      husband, Harry Potter, was sent to prison for murder. They would
      check on Potter in the next section of the spiral, along with the
      man who'd been here the longest of anyone: Sirius Black.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Doing okay, Wil?" Li asked, coolly, as he stepped past Janssen
      and into the corridor beyond. Janssen nodded, looking pale.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You'll get used to it," Li said as they walked to the last cell
      block in this section, casting <em class="calibre7">Alohomora</em> on the door's
      large iron padlock and removing it. He hung the open lock on the
      door and opened it. "Have any of your mates mentioned keeping your
      Patronus active as you sleep yet?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Y-yes," Janssen replied, his voice dubious. "But I didn't think
      you could maintain one while you were asleep."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a bit tricky," Li conceded. He looked at the small shelf
      next to the door, where the water bowls were stored. Three bowls.
      He frowned. There were four prisoners in this block. Had Number Two
      forgotten to put his bowl by the door, or… "Most of us manage it,
      after some practice. You'll sleep better if your Patronus is next
      to you. Keeps the nightmares away." He filled Bowl One with water,
      then opened the small trapdoor at the bottom of the large steel
      door numbered One and slid the bowl inside. An empty bowl was next
      to the door; he Summoned it and put it on the bottom of the other
      bowls, then moved to cell Two.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Opening the trap door, he cast <em class="calibre7">Homenum Revelio</em>. There
      was a flash showing a human lying on the camp bed inside. And an
      empty bowl next to the door. Good — the prisoner had probably just
      forgotten earlier. Li Summoned the bowl then moved on, filling the
      other bowls and replacing the empty bowls with them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When he returned to the cell block door, Janssen was giving him
      an expectant look, as if he wanted to say something. "What is it?"
      Li asked as he closed the door and relocked the padlock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," Janssen was looking toward the door leading to the
      stairs down to the next level. "This is the spiral that, um, Harry
      Potter is in, isn't it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A smile curled a corner of Li's mouth. "It took you long enough
      to ask me that, Wil. Yeah, Potter's on the next level, he's been
      here about a month now. You haven't been down to see him yet?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Janssen shook his head. His cockatiel Patronus mirrored the
      gesture. "This is the first time I've gone down C-spiral," he said.
      "The other guys on my team have, uh, covered for me going on food
      and water runs. Er, to give me time to acclimate to the place."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Li nodded. "Yeah, this place can get to you if you let it. I've
      been doing tours here since 1990 and if it weren't for the
      triple-pay I'd walk away in a heartbeat. And it was ten times worse
      back in the 90's!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Worse?" Janssen's eyes widened. "Than <em class="calibre7">now</em>? You've got
      to be shitting me, Mike! This is the most awful place I've ever
      been in!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can imagine how it is for the prisoners, then," Li pointed
      out. "We've only got one prisoner left from back then, and he's
      been here since 1981. He's on the next level, too, a bloke named
      Sirius Black."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Since 1981?" Janssen looked horrified. "Merlin, that's over 35
      years! How could anyone stand it here that long?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Some of us have wondered that as well," Li agreed. "We don't
      see much of Black — he doesn't lie on his bunk much. He prefers to
      curl up in a corner of the cell where we can't see him unless we go
      inside. We check up on him every so often, change out his blankets
      every six months or so. They're always covered with hair, though
      he's still got a full head of hair himself. Haven't quite worked
      that out, yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Li jerked a thumb at the door leading to the staircase down to
      the next level. "Let's keep moving. If you like I'll let you change
      out the water bowls in Potter and Black's cells. They're in the
      same block — for some reason, when Black heard that Harry Potter
      was in here he asked to be moved next to his cell. Nobody could
      think of a good reason why not, so we moved him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But…" Janssen had a thoughtful frown on his face. "Before I
      came here I read a book on the most famous prisoners in Azkaban
      over the centuries. People like Crispin Cronk, or Carlotta
      Pinkstone, and of course Bellatrix and Sirius Black. I remember
      reading that Black had something to do with the death of Harry
      Potter's parents."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Li shrugged indifferently. "I remember something about that —
      Black told his leader, the Dark Lord Voldemort, where the Potters
      were hidden so Voldemort could kill them. That was pretty
      treacherous but it's not the reason Black is in here. A day or so
      after the Potters died Black murdered a wizard in full view of
      witnesses on a London street. He killed twelve Muggles as
      well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Janssen shook his head. "I don't think Harry Potter would want
      someone like Black anywhere near him, especially after all
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, if Harry Potter offers us a bribe to move him away from
      Black, we'll consider it," Li suggested. He patted Janssen on the
      shoulder. "For now, let's get cracking so we don't fall behind the
      other spirals. And remember, you're going to have a look at Harry
      Potter himself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Janssen nodded, and his Patronus brightened fractionally. A
      chance to see Harry Potter-Evans-Verres-Granger himself! The two
      men moved toward the door at the end of the corridor, the one
      leading to a long, metal staircase to the next level down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Sirius stared at the staircase leading up to the level
      above them. Every staircase to a new level of each spiral was
      located in a corner of the prison where two sides met. A short
      hallway led to each staircase, which led up or down (depending on
      which direction you were traveling in) along the inside of the
      outer wall of the prison, to a landing area, then continued along
      the adjacent wall to the next level</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Somewhere in this area was a secret passage between the C- and
      A-spirals, if Harry's Patronus was correct. But they only had about
      four minutes to find it! "What do we look for?" Harry asked his
      Patronus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It will not be obvious, of course," the Patronus said,
      thoughtfully, looking around the hallway they were in. "I can
      search for it directly, if you do not mind me being out of sight
      for a little while."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about the Dementors?" Harry asked. "Won't they sense us if
      we're not protected by your light?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There is a small risk, but I will be out of your sight only a
      few seconds," the Patronus said. "Do you wish to risk it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go," Harry said immediately. "We don't have much time." The
      Patronus nodded and moved up the stairway, its protective light
      dimming as it moved away from them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A pall of depression began to settle over Harry and Sirius.
      Sirius bent over, holding his head as if he'd suddenly developed a
      splitting headache. "Damn," he muttered. "I'd forgotten how bad
      that felt!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Harry agreed, wincing at the near-pain he felt now that
      his Patronus was no longer protecting them from the Dementors'
      debilitating influence. He put his arms around himself, trying to
      hold in the vestiges of optimism and happiness he'd felt only
      moments earlier. "At least you can turn into your Animagus form and
      avoid the worst of this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I won't," Sirius said, standing straighter again. "Not if
      you can't. Damn, I wish I had a wand! I could cast my own Patronus
      for us! I wish yours would hurry up and find that bloody secret
      passage already —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Up here," Harry's Patronus said suddenly from somewhere along
      the staircase. "Hurry, the Aurors are almost finished with the
      level above us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Sirius scrambled up the staircase steps, feeling
      better as the approached the landing. The Patronus was there,
      standing next to a wall on the side nearest the outside corner. "It
      is here," it said, pointing to the wall. "But we are nearly out of
      time. Harry, you should cast Colloportus on the door at the top of
      the stairs, the two Aurors moving through this spiral are nearly
      ready to enter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded and moved up the staircase until he was almost at
      the top and he could see the large steel door leading to the level
      above them. He concentrated for a moment, then pointed the wand he
      held at the door and said, "<em class="calibre7">Colloportus</em>." There was a soft
      <em class="calibre7">click</em> as the lock in the door engaged. He moved back down
      the stairs to the landing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That won't hold them more than a few seconds," he said, looking
      at the wall his Patronus had indicated earlier. "Where's the
      passageway?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just about here," the Patronus pointed to a section of the
      wall. You will need to cast Quarello's Discernment spell to reveal
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry held up his wand, but shook his head a moment later. "I
      don't remember the words," he said, anxiously. "I know I should
      —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It is 'Revelio Dex Ontoblum,'" the Patronus said. "You should
      hurry — the Aurors are about to enter the stairwell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded and drew a breath, then pointed his wand and
      repeated the words. There was no response. The handle on the door
      at the top of the staircase rattled, as if someone was trying to
      turn it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Try again!" Sirius urged. "Concentrate, Harry!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">You</em> concentrate," Harry muttered. He jerked as a hand
      touched him — his Patronus had placed its silver palm on his
      shoulder. That helped — the gestures and words of the charm
      suddenly appeared in his brain. "<em class="calibre7">Revelio Dex Ontobulum</em>!"
      he said softly, the tip of the wand tracing the correct pattern,
      and a small doorway appeared in the wall, just large enough for him
      and Sirius to squeeze through.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's go," Harry whispered, and he and Sirius moved into the
      passage, pulling the cover closed behind them. The Patronus
      murmured words in Harry's ear and he pointed his wand at the cover
      and cast one more spell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The inside of the passage was larger than Harry had expected,
      but it probably wasn't an Extension Charm — that would eventually
      dissipate if not kept up by the Aurors. Two staircases led away,
      one going up, the other going down, and Harry's Patronus moved into
      the one going down. Harry and Sirius immediately followed, moving
      as quietly as they could on the metal steps of the staircase.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What the hell?" Li said, confused, as the door leading to the
      staircase down to the next level refused to open. "Nobody should
      have locked this!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Janssen was looking around, suddenly alert. "Did you hear
      something? A clicking sound?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Li said, chagrinned. He'd been thinking about what Janssen
      would say when he saw Harry Potter for the first time. "Call it in
      to Control," he ordered. "We'll proceed on Level Two alert." That
      meant Anti-Disillusionment and Shield Charms in place, and Human
      Revealment spells cast ahead of them wherever someone might be
      hiding under an invisibility cloak. While Janssen called Upstairs
      to let them know there was a problem, Li put up his shields and
      cast the Anti-Disillusionment Charm on himself. Incidentally he
      cast Alohomora on the door in front of them and waved it open with
      his wand, casting Homenum Revelio on the landing and staircase.
      There was no one there, at least not between where they were and
      the landing of the staircase.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Janssen cast his own spells and the two of them moved slowly
      into the stairway and down the steps. Li cast a detection spell
      that showed human footprints and handprints — they had touched one
      wall of the landing. Li cast a spell on the area around the
      handprints, but the cover of the passageway between spirals,
      accessible only by use of an advanced detection spell, had not been
      opened recently. Breaking into Azkaban still wasn't that difficult,
      if you were good enough, but it still rankled Li that it had
      happened on his watch. After that fiasco in early '92 the Head had
      reamed out everyone on duty and docked them a week's pay. He didn't
      want another situation like that taking place again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A thought came unbidden into his consciousness. It wasn't a
      happy thought, of course, but then most Aurors were pessimists at
      heart, he'd decided. What if Harry Potter and/or Sirius Black had
      escaped? Li grimaced, deciding to keep that potential disaster to
      himself for the moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's see what's going on down there," he instead whispered to
      Janssen, and the two Aurors moved down the staircase to the next
      level below.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Sirius followed Harry's Patronus down the narrow,
      steep passageway. It curved tightly, making Harry think whoever had
      designed it had planned for very little extra room. The steel walls
      of the passage were cold and clammy; they must be very near the
      outer wall of the prison. Briefly, Harry wondered if they could
      simply break out right here, but remembered why they were going to
      A-spiral: to rescue Ginny. Ginny, who never should have ended up in
      Azkaban the first place except that Voldemort had used her against
      him. All those years he must've hidden himself away within her
      body, waiting for the moment to reassert himself. Not a pleasant
      thought. But then, when you were in Azkaban such thoughts were
      commonplace.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They reached a small landing where another set of steps branched
      off, continuing to spiral downward, and a short corridor leading to
      a blank wall. Harry's Patronus stood aside, gesturing for Harry to
      step forward.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You must cast Quarello's Discernment again to open this cover,"
      the Patronus told him. "Once we are in A-spiral I will lead us
      directly to Ginny Thomas's cell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry cast the spell again and the cover popped open. He and
      Sirius piled out onto the landing, and the Patronus appeared next
      to them a moment later. "Remember to shut the cover and cast the
      spell erasing our use of the passageway." Harry complied, then the
      three of them moved down the staircase to the door below, the
      letters 5-A stenciled next to it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Halfway down the tower," Sirius muttered. "What did this Ginny
      Thomas do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing," Harry said grimly. "But she was convicted of
      murdering three Aurors."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius whistled, though it was more like a shrill sigh than a
      whistle. "I'm surprised she's not deeper in the prison, then — the
      Aurors here don't treat Auror-killers well at all. I'm supposed to
      have killed thirteen people, including a wizard, and I'm two levels
      above her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now out in the corridor for this level, the Patronus pointed
      unerringly to the third block door. "She is there, in the cell
      closest to the inner wall and the Dementors. Things are not well
      with her — I can barely sense her presence."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Harry moved forward, striding purposefully to the third door along
      the corridor. As he approached the door his wand went out, pointing
      at the padlock on the door; it broke apart and fell to the floor
      with a <em class="calibre7">clang</em>. The door flew open and Harry went through
      without breaking stride, Sirius and Harry's Patronus hurrying after
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Sirius and the Patronus reached the block door Harry was
      already striding down the corridor to the farthest cell doors.
      "Right or left?" he said over his shoulder, to his Patronus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The left," the Patronus answered, and the lock on that door
      shattered a moment later. Harry stepped into the doorway — and
      halted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That bastard," he breathed a moment later, his gaze frozen by
      what he saw inside. "That fucking bastard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny Thomas lay sprawled like a broken doll across a worn and
      weathered cot in the corner of the cell. Her red hair, normally
      resplendent with color, seemed withered and gray. Her clothing, the
      same clothing she had been in the last time Harry saw her, was
      already beginning to go tattered and torn. She had not moved since
      Harry entered the room; the only motion he saw was the rising and
      falling of her chest as she breathed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry moved quickly over to her, lifting her head and laying it
      in his lap as he sat down on the cot. Harry looked up, gesturing to
      his Patronus to come closer at once. The Patronus complied, and as
      its light shone on her Ginny heaved one shuddering sigh. Her eyes
      flickered, focusing on Harry's face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I knew you would come for me," she whispered hoarsely, then
      closed her eyes again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I'm here," Harry whispered, not knowing what else to say.
      He cupped her cheek in his hand, feeling an impulse to kiss her,
      but Prince Charming he wasn't; an <em class="calibre7">Innervate</em> would do more
      good for her than a kiss.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius stepped in front of them. "Let me take her," he said,
      softly. "We've got to go — we've got four more levels before we
      reach the bottom of Azkaban."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry let Sirius lift her body off the cot. He hardly looked
      capable of standing by himself, but he held her easily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We should move briskly," the Patronus said. "If the Aurors
      discover you are no longer in your cells they will go on alert and
      institute a lockdown on all levels. It will be difficult to move
      from level to level with a lockdown in place, and we must reach the
      bottom in order to escape."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded then stood, trembling with repressed anger. He was
      going to kill Voldemort for this, no matter what he had to do to
      find that last Horcrux and destroy it. "Let's go," he ordered.
      "We're getting out of here, no matter <em class="calibre7">what</em> comes after us
      now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Li and Janssen moved carefully into the fourth level of
      C-spiral, checking for any Disillusioned people lurking in shadows
      and casting Homenum Revelio to check for cloaks. The footprints
      they had detected showed unusual activity. One set of footprints
      had come up the stairs almost to the door of the level they had
      just left, but had turned and went down again. Two sets of
      footprints had come up to the landing of the staircase they had
      just left, but had ended there. It almost looked as if they had
      gone into the passageway between spirals, but they'd checked and
      the detection spells said the door hadn't been opened. Human
      Revealment and Anti-Disillusionment Charms showed no one had been
      hiding in the staircase. If the intruders had somehow realized Li
      and Janssen were approaching them and backtracked, they might be
      hiding on this level after somehow erasing or disguising their
      footprints. If not, then they were moving lower and lower into
      Azkaban, and that was never a good direction to go in, not without
      serious Patronus protection.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At least, Li hoped that what the indications meant. If not…
      well, Li's memories of the last breakout of Azkaban still came to
      mind. Amelia Bones was no longer head of the DMLE, but Minister
      Malfoy hadn't yet appointed a replacement, which mean that
      <em class="calibre7">he</em> would be in charge if they had to elevate this any
      higher. And Li did <em class="calibre7">not</em> want to be around if that
      happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Janssen was tracing the footprints they could detect back along
      their path. "They seem to be angling toward Block Two," he
      murmured, and Li groaned inwardly. Black and Potter's cell
      block.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look at the padlock on the block door," Li said a moment later.
      "It doesn't look right." As they moved nearer they saw why: the
      padlock was dangling from the handle of the door instead of the
      latch that secured it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shit," Li said softly. "Call it in. Tell them to lock it down!"
      There was <em class="calibre7">not</em> going to be a repeat of the day Bellatrix
      Black escaped, he told himself again. Malfoy would have to be
      called in, but they would cross that bridge when they got to
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry remained silent as they moved down the levels of A-spiral
      toward the bottommost level, number Nine. He was still repressing
      the anger he'd felt when he'd found Ginny, semi-starved and nearly
      dead from exposure to Dementors. Shortly, though, he would be able
      to let his anger out, and things would forever change at Azkaban
      Prison.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was not angry at the Aurors who'd likely mistreated her,
      though he was not going to go easy on them if they got in his way.
      They believed Ginny had murdered three of their own; it was normal
      to feel anger and hatred toward someone who'd done something like
      that. It was personal to them, unlike Harry's supposed murder of
      James Monroe, a man none of them had known and who was simply
      another face in the Wizarding community. They'd treated Harry like
      they would any other murderer. But for Ginny, it had been three of
      their own.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Except that Ginny had <em class="calibre7">not</em> murdered the three Aurors,
      Harry now remembered. It had been Voldemort possessing her body who
      had committed those murders. Voldemort, who was now in the body of
      Draco Malfoy, who had schemed and manipulated his way to the
      Ministry after ousting his wife, Hermione. Hermione had resigned
      after Harry was arrested for the murder of Monroe, but it had been
      Voldemort pulling the strings once again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now that Harry remembered these things, there was nothing that
      could keep him in Azkaban, slowly rotting away for a crime he
      didn't commit. Ginny would be leaving with him as well, as would
      Sirius Black who, it turned out, had <em class="calibre7">not</em> killed Peter
      Pettigrew back in November 1981. Pettigrew had pretended to die in
      an explosion that killed twelve innocent people, leaving his right
      index finger as the only part of him left after the explosion, and
      gone into hiding. While Harry was in Azkaban Pettigrew snuck into
      his cell using the ventilation system and pretended to be one of
      Harry's "voices." In Harry's demented state it had been quite
      convincing, until Sirius, who'd been moved into the cell next to
      him, switched cells with Harry and captured Pettigrew, proving he
      was alive.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pettigrew was dead now, however, after attacking Sirius with a
      knife and trying to escape. Sirius had transformed into his dog
      Animagus and shaken Peter to death. His body was still back in
      Harry's old cell, the only proof that he'd escaped death back in
      1981, but the other rats in Azkaban (the real rats) would make
      short work of his body, and the physical proof of Sirius's
      innocence would be lost.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had almost considered turning around to retrieve the rat's
      body, so at least Sirius would be able prove he hadn't committed
      murder, but time was running out. The Aurors moving through the
      levels would discover that he and Sirius were gone any moment now,
      and they needed to be at the lowest level of the prison before that
      happened; the doors between levels would become much harder to open
      once Azkaban went into lockdown.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They had traveled down three levels in as many minutes. Entering
      the ninth level Harry pointed toward the first block door,
      intending to remove the padlock. The doors were locked whether
      anyone was in the cells or not, and his Patronus had told him no
      one was imprisoned below Level Five in any spiral. Before he could
      remove the lock, however, the dim orange light of the gas lamps
      suddenly snuffed out, leaving only the silvery light of Harry's
      Patronus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lockdown," Sirius whispered, looking around. He was still
      holding Ginny in his arms, though he looked more tired than he had
      three levels up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It doesn't matter," Harry said. "We're almost there." He looked
      to his Patronus, who regarded him with apparent calm. "You know
      what I'm going to do, don't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," the Patronus answered. "I am you, after all. And I
      agree, this recourse has been long overdue."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded and turned back to the block door, pointing his
      wand at the padlock. It snapped open and Harry pulled it from the
      latch, throwing it across the floor. He pulled the door open and
      he, Sirius with Ginny, and his Patronus marched the length of the
      block to the far wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was the inner wall of Azkaban; on the other side was the
      Dementor nest, where up to a hundred Dementors would be waiting,
      wounds in the world that needed destroying.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry steeled himself. What he was about to do would be
      difficult, the most difficult single thing he had ever done. One
      Dementor 25 years ago was one thing; 100 of them all at once would
      be quite another. And it would be only after he had expended magic
      getting through the great steel inner wall, six inches or more
      thick. He put the wand he held against the steel wall and imagined
      a thin ring of the material Transfiguring to oil. This was partial
      Transfiguration, a skill he had created a quarter-century ago, and
      he was still the only wizard in the world that could do it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Time passed excruciatingly slowly. There was no way to hurry it
      along, it depended on his concentration and that was hard to come
      by in this place, though the presence of his Patronus, standing
      patiently beside him, helped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius wasn't so patient, however. "How much longer?" he asked,
      his voice a low growl. "They've got to be coming for us any minute
      now!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They are," the Patronus said without looking at Sirius. "They
      are two levels above us and moving as quickly as they can. They
      will reach this level in perhaps another minute."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not much longer," Harry muttered, feeling the metal he was
      transforming begin to react with his magic. "The plug will fall
      into the central core, I've angled the edges downward so it will
      slide loose. And then —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, what <em class="calibre7">would</em> they do then? After Harry took care of
      the Dementors they would have to move onto the Dementors' nest,
      where no wards preventing exit from the prison could be active, and
      create a Portkey that would take them out of here. But where would
      they go? Harry hadn't really thought that far ahead yet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Patronus suddenly turned to face the other end of the block.
      "Aurors are about to enter this level," it said, calmly. "Harry,
      you will have to lock the block door —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't," Harry said. "I'd have to restart this
      Transfiguration!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hell," Sirius snarled, placing Ginny on the floor. "Keep going,
      Harry, I'll take care of the Aurors!" He turned and ran unsteadily
      toward the far end of the cell block.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A ring of dark liquid suddenly appeared in the metal wall, and
      the circle of metal began sliding away from Harry. It slipped out
      of the hole and fell, but before it fell out of view it hit bottom
      and tipped forward, landing with a large <em class="calibre7">splat</em> in a
      combination of mud and ash. There was a whirl of dozen of black,
      tattered cloaks as Dementors moved out of the metal cylinder's
      path.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Behind Harry were growls and shouts of surprise and alarm, but
      he dared not turn his attention away from the Dementors.
      "<em class="calibre7">Go</em>," he said to his Patronus, his voice shaking.
      "<em class="calibre7">Give them the Death they deserve</em>." It moved forward, past
      him and into the central core of Azkaban, shining brighter and
      brighter as Harry's anger was finally released. A sun suddenly
      blossomed, whiting out everything else from view. Harry held a hand
      in front of his eyes, noting as he did so that he could see the
      bones of his hand through his flesh and his eyelids, so bright was
      his Patronus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When the brightness faded, Harry's Patronus was gone, but so was
      the sensation of despair and helplessness that the Patronus had
      held at bay, and Harry leaned forward through the hole in the wall,
      seeing nothing in the central core but tattered rags covering a
      mound of dirt and mud. He looked upward, seeing a triangle of blue
      far above him; other rags floated high above, but Harry couldn't
      tell if they were the remains of Dementors or some who had escaped.
      Either way, they were gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a groan from the other end of the block. Harry ran
      toward it, finding Sirius on his hands and knees surrounded by
      three unconscious Aurors. There was a wand in his hand, apparently
      taken from one of the Aurors. He looked up at Harry as Harry bent
      down next to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I guess I've still got it," Sirius croaked as Harry helped him
      to his feet. "Of course it didn't hurt that they didn't expect a
      large dog to jump them as they tried to break in here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you alright?" Harry asked, examining him. Sirius didn't
      seem harmed except for the knife wound in his side, where Pettigrew
      had stabbed him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Never better," Sirius grinned crookedly. "Can we get the hell
      out of here now? Did you scare the Dementors off?" He looked
      through the hole in the wall, then back at Harry, his face white.
      "Harry, what the hell did you <em class="calibre7">do</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I destroyed them," Harry told him. "Like I said I would."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Merlin's pants," Sirius said, staring in wonder at the empty
      cloaks fluttering about in the now-empty core of Azkaban. "I
      wouldn't have believed it if I hadn't seen it. I guess we can leave
      now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Harry agreed. "I just wish I knew where we should
      go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I've got that covered," Sirius said, as the two of them
      moved back toward the hole in the wall. "We'll go to my dear
      mother's house."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry picked up Ginny and he and Sirius stood at the brink of
      the pit of hell. It was a ten-foot drop to the Dementors' nest.
      "How do we get down there?" Sirius asked. "I could jump that in my
      Animagus form."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Levitation Charm," Harry said. "Think you can lower me and
      Ginny down?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I just beat three Aurors single-handed," Sirius laughed. "A
      Levitation Charm should be a doss." He pointed his captured wand at
      Harry and Ginny. "<em class="calibre7">Wingardium Leviosa</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Ginny lifted off of the floor and floated out into the
      central core, where they slowly moved down to rest on the circle of
      steel that moments ago had been part of the walls of Azkaban. Harry
      let Ginny's feet down, holding her upright with this left arm, and
      pointed his wand up at Sirius, invoking the Levitation Charm.
      Sirius floated down to land next to the two of them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right, then," Sirius said as he took something from his pocket.
      It was a dragon tooth necklace. "One of Aurors was wearing this,"
      he said to Harry. "I knew we'd need something for a Portkey. Hope I
      can get this right with a stolen wand," he muttered, then tapped
      the tooth with the wand, saying "<em class="calibre7">Portus</em>." The tooth glowed
      blue momentarily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing fancy," he said quickly, holding out the tooth for
      Harry to touch. "It'll go in five seconds. If I've cast the spell
      right, we'll find ourselves in —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A hook grabbed Harry behind his navel, pulling him forward
      motionlessly into a whirlwind of color and sound, and everything
      went dark for a not-so-brief instant.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's feet slammed (well, slammed wasn't the right word, the
      ground was just suddenly <em class="calibre7">there</em>) into ground and he
      staggered, both with sudden disorientation and Ginny's weight in
      his arms, and he toppled over. He twisted so that Ginny landed on
      him instead of he on her, and he groaned as her weight knocked the
      wind out of him. "Ouch," he said, under his breath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Next to him Sirius, who had fallen over as he reappeared as
      well, was already getting to his feet. He leaned over Harry,
      grinning excitedly. "I did it, Harry! We're home!" He reached down
      and picked Ginny up off him. "Come on, let's get inside before
      someone begins wondering who we are and how we got here!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Still holding Ginny, Sirius helped Harry to his feet. The change
      in his demeanor was remarkable; where he'd been nervous and
      irritable before, he was now smiling and excited. He led Harry
      toward one of the houses that lined the square they'd landed in.
      The house was old — its walls were dirty, the windows covered with
      dust and grime. They walked up the worn steps and stood in front of
      the shabby, scratched black door. The only thing on it that
      appeared new was its doorknocker, which had the appearance of a
      twisted silver serpent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Take her a moment," Sirius said to Harry, indicating Ginny.
      Harry held her at his side as Sirius took out the wand he'd
      acquired and tapped the doorknocker once. There were several clicks
      and a long clatter like a chain being dragged across a floor. The
      door opened slowly with a creak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In we go," Sirius said quickly, taking hold of Ginny so they
      could walk her inside. "Once we're inside, don't say anything until
      I tell you it's okay to speak."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What was the big deal about not speaking now that they were
      inside? Harry wondered, but he kept silent. Sirius waved his wand
      and gas lamps sputtered and lit, casting dim light along a long
      hallway of old, peeling wallpaper and rows of old, darkened
      portraits hung along the walls. The carpet under their feet looked
      moth-eaten and threadbare. What kind of house was this? Harry
      wondered. It looked more like some Demented prisoner of Azkaban had
      tried to fix up a corridor to look like home.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius moved along the hallway, past a pair of dark curtains and
      a large umbrella stand that looked unsettlingly like a severed
      troll's leg, then past a staircase that led upward into darkness.
      Past the stairs was a door, and Sirius led them through it and into
      a long drawing room. He waved the door shut with his wand, pointed
      to a lounger where they placed Ginny, then turned and smiled at
      Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Welcome to my home, Harry," he said. "Number 12, Grimmauld
      Place. This was my parents' home until my mother died a few years
      ago. I inherited it, probably because she never got round to taking
      me out of my father's will or making one of her own. I left when I
      was 16. Didn't think I'd ever set foot in the place again, but I
      guess you should never say never, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is your home?" Harry frowned. He could see several
      problems with this. "Won't the Ministry know to look for you here,
      once they realize we've escaped?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius considered that for a several seconds. "I suppose so," he
      shrugged. "It seemed like a good idea, though, when we needed to
      get out of Azkaban. My father had a Fidelius Charm placed on the
      house to keep Ministry people from bothering us, but that was years
      ago — so many of us became Secret Keepers afterward he died that
      probably anyone can show up here now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A new Fidelius would be a good idea," Harry suggested, "if we
      can get someone to cast it. We need a place to hide — I can't go
      home and neither can Ginny."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I never learned the Fidelius," Sirius muttered. "Too damned
      complicated for me. I'm better at Charms and Defense magic. D'you
      know anyone you can trust who can cast it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione could," Harry said, after a second. "But I don't want
      to drag her into this right now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And who's Hermione?" Sirius asked, curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My wife," Harry said. He gave Sirius a look. "I thought I told
      you that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You told me you were married," Sirius replied. "Not what her
      name was. Anyone else you can think of?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well — Remus Lupin," Harry said. "But we certainly can't ask
      <em class="calibre7">him</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can't?" Sirius was grinning crookedly again. "Why not?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head, astonished. "Because he's the Chief
      Warlock of the bloody Wizengamot, that's why not! If he heard from
      either you or me he'd be obligated to turn us in to the
      Ministry!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why don't we ask him?" Sirius said, with a smirk. When Harry
      just shook his head disbelievingly, Sirius walked out of the room.
      Harry followed hot on his heels, wondering what he would do. Sirius
      walked up the staircase to the first floor, with Harry behind him
      staring with some amazement at the heads of house-elves lining the
      wall. The Blacks beheaded their house-elves?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius strode down the first floor hallway, reaching a door and
      flinging it open. He walked over to a dresser and rummaged around
      in one of the drawers, reaching deep into its depths before
      withdrawing his hand once again and holding it up toward Harry.
      There was a small, round mirror in it, and Harry knew immediately
      what he intended. "Wait a minute —" he said, trying to prevent
      Sirius from using the device, but Sirius just shook his head and
      spoke into the mirror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Moony?" he said. "D'you hear me? We need to talk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They waited nearly a minute in silence before Sirius shook his
      head. "Hmph," he said, sounding disappointed. "He must've thrown it
      away, or broken it or something —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who the hell is this?" a voice said quietly from the mirror.
      Sirius looked up, grinning at Harry. Harry shook his head warningly
      — he'd recognized Lupin's voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius ignored him and spoke cheerfully into the mirror. "It's
      Padfoot, you hairy prat, who'd you think was calling you on this
      mirror?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Lupin's voice was dry. "You know there's a report that
      you and Harry Potter broke out of your cells and you're roaming the
      corridors of Azkaban attacking all the Aurors."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was only three Aurors," Sirius said. "And we're not in
      Azkaban anymore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?" Lupin said. "Where are you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head frantically. <em class="calibre7">Don't tell him!</em> he
      mouthed at Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I said I'd never darken the door of this place again,"
      Sirius answered, "but I'm back home."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see," Lupin said. "So, why are you telling me all this? You
      know that I'm Chief Warlock now, don't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Sirius nodded. "Harry told me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know I'm supposed to report the whereabouts of any known
      criminals to the Auror Department, don't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, yeah, I know all that," Sirius said impatiently. "But
      this is <em class="calibre7">Padfoot</em>, Moony. You remember the Marauders, don't
      you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Silence from the mirror for some time. "That was a long time
      ago, Sirius."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm," Sirius frowned at the mirror. "Maybe it was. Maybe I
      thought what we all had together would last forever. Maybe I'm
      wrong about that, Moony, but if you're going to turn us in, at
      least hear me out about what happened that day back in 1981. I
      didn't kill Peter, he tricked us all. You never got to hear the
      entire story, and I'm the only one left of all of us who can tell
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What happened to Peter?" Lupin asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He came to visit me in Azkaban."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">More silence. "He couldn't have, Sirius. The guards would have
      recognized him and called the Ministry. He'd have to explain why he
      was still alive when you supposedly killed him and twelve other
      people."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He didn't just walk into the place, Remus." Sirius's voice was
      hard now. "He was playing some kind of game with Harry. Sneaking
      into his cell as a rat and pretending to be a voice in Harry's
      head. I heard Harry talking and went to the window between our
      cells, and I thought I caught of whiff of Peter. You know I have a
      good sense of smell. I had the Aurors switch our cells so I could
      wait for him. When he showed up and changed back to human form
      beneath my cot, I dragged him out from under it. Harry heard him,
      he knows he was there, too! Then the rat bastard stabbed me and
      tried to escape and I —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't say it," Lupin said quickly. He was silent for several
      seconds. "You're at your parents' home?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is Harry with you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm here, Remus," Harry said into the mirror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay," Lupin said, sounding relieved at hearing Harry's voice.
      "There was another report, a woman named Ginny Thomas is missing
      from her cell, too. They believe you and Sirius broke her out. Is
      that true?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She's here with us," Harry said. "She didn't murder those three
      Aurors."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright, I'm coming to you," Lupin said. "I'll be there in a
      few seconds and we'll sort all this out. I hope."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
