<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos - Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos Chapter 5: The Lords of Chaos Ride Again, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s5" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 5: The Lords of Chaos Ride Again</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Updated 12/16/2011</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Chaos Lords, Evermore, yes we are</em><em class="calibre7">!"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While Mary's Place afforded fine eating and a secure environment
      (Mary's Room) for sensitive conversations, there were other places
      in Diagon Alley that were equally secure, if not more so.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A case in point was a shop situated almost at the end of Diagon
      Alley — number 93, the location of Weaselys' Wizard Wheezes,
      operated by Fred, George and Ron Weasley, and their wives. The
      three wives, Verity, Angelina, and Luna, were at that moment
      running the noisy, bustling business while their husbands "slacked
      off," at least to their way of thinking, in a lunch meeting with
      Harry Potter-Evans-Verres, held in the infamous "Chaos Room" on the
      first floor of the building, just below their three personal
      apartments.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The room was now locked down and warded with no less than
      thirty-four protection spells, making the room even more secure
      than the private dining area at Mary's Place. Four robed, hooded
      and masked figures sat around a plain wooden table enjoying a feast
      of fish and chips, along with foamy mugs of Merlin's Best Mead,
      their masks pushed up enough to allow them to eat unimpeded. No one
      had spoken since the meal had begun, since all of the four Lords of
      Chaos had learned the importance of finishing their meals, which
      somehow never seemed to happen if they began speaking before the
      food was gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Each mask worn by the Lords was expressive of its owner's
      temperament. Two of the masks were golden in color, both of them at
      the moment displaying the smiling face of Comedy. These two masks
      held an enchantment that caused their expressions to change with
      the feelings and emotions of their wearing. More often than not,
      both masks would change at same time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The third mask, worn by the youngest Weasley brother, was long
      and white, with sad black eyes and a long, open mouth, from the
      wearer's favorite character, Ghostface from the Scream movies. That
      mask was now pushed to one side as its wearer hungrily devoured the
      planks of deep-fried cod in front of him, washing down his meal
      with gulps of mead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The fourth and final mask was white as well, with a reddish
      stain surrounding the wide, grinning mouth of the mask and
      blackened stains around the eyeholes, representing the most Chaotic
      character its wearer knew: the Joker. He had already finished his
      meal and sat quietly going over the major points he planned to
      discuss at this hastily-called meeting. Yesterday had been a
      surreal day, even by his standards, and he wanted to discuss the
      experience with other acknowledged experts of the surreal.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had briefly considered not inviting Ron to attend this
      meeting. Ron was the newest member of the Lords of Chaos, having
      joined only after his marriage to Luna and he began working at WWW
      with Fred and George and their wives. Harry also knew that Ron had
      nursed a long-time resentment of him over Hermione; they had
      briefly dated in their sixth year, when Hermione was experimenting
      with seeing other people. She and Harry had not resumed their own
      relationship until after both of them had finished college, in 2003
      — the year Harry had started TBC Enterprises and Minister of Magic
      Rufus Scrimgeour brought her aboard the Ministry in the Department
      of International Magical Cooperation to run the International
      Magical Office of Law Department. Ron still had a lingering crush
      on Hermione, Harry knew. In fact, just about everyone in Ron's
      family knew it, though none of them would ever tell him so — Ron
      would likely die of mortification if he ever found out. So, Harry
      would just grin and bear the resentment. And after all, Ron had
      turned into a valuable member of Team Weasley — he had come up with
      several money-spinning items over the past decade, after he'd
      joined WWW in 2006, two years after he had married Luna Lovegood,
      and left his job at the Ministry, when Hermione had become Minister
      of Magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At length the last piece of fish had been finished off, the last
      chip chomped, and the last mug of mead quaffed. Masks were pulled
      back into place, a wave of a wand Vanished the wrappers and empty
      mugs from the table, and a deep voice called the meeting to order.
      "Let's have this meeting come to order, shall we?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We shall," the others intoned. "Beginning with the singing of
      the Song of Chaos!" Everyone cleared their throats, then began:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Chaos Lords, we are Four, yes we are!<br class="calibre4"/></em><em class="calibre7">Chaos
      Lords, Evermore, yes we are!<br class="calibre4"/></em><em class="calibre7">Never will there be any
      Order in us,<br class="calibre4"/></em><em class="calibre7">It's only Chaos for us, evermore,
      evermore!<br class="calibre4"/></em><em class="calibre7">Ever will we seek Disorder in
      us,<br class="calibre4"/></em><em class="calibre7">It's only Chaos for us, this we swore, this we
      swore!<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">(sung to the tune of Star Wars' "Imperial March")</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The original Song of Chaos had been simpler ("doom" being the
      only word used in the song), but Fred and George had soon added
      more lyrics. Adding Ron to the Order had had made their number
      four, which allowed for a slightly better rhyme (instead of "Chaos
      Lords, we are Three, yes we be!").</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred wiped away a nonexistent tear from the side of his mask,
      its mouth now turned downward in Tragedy. "I really love that
      song," he said, softly. "It puts me in a very chaotic mood."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very appropriate," George agreed. His own mask had a look of
      Bemused Sadness on it. "Shall we waive the reading of the previous
      meeting's minutes?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Seems like a good idea," Ron noted, wryly. "Since I don't have
      them anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why did you become secretary, then?" Fred remarked,
      disapprovingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because you made me," Ron retorted. Fred and George's masks
      both smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, knew there was a good reason," George said, as his and his
      twin's masks now showed Amusement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ahem," Harry said, softly, and three masks turned toward him.
      "I've called this meeting of the Lords of Chaos to discuss a
      mystery I discovered yesterday during my interview with James
      Monroe, the Muggle magazine journalist." He went on to explain
      about seeing Monroe as a child at Hogwarts, an apparent
      impossibility as he was a Muggle, and Monroe's inability to explain
      why he'd been there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred and George's masks were both showing Intense Concentration
      on them. "That's a poser," Fred finally muttered, his mask changing
      to Bewildered Confusion. "The most obvious first guess would be a
      false memory."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Checked for that," Harry nodded. "If it was a false memory, it
      was created by a Perfect Occlumens, and this Muggle couldn't be one
      of those."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron spoke from behind his mask. "So maybe some wizard is out to
      get you, using this Muggle as a cat's-paw."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was the obvious second guess," Harry agreed. "But I
      detected no traces of magic on him at all, except for my own
      spells." One of the catch-22's of magic use was that no matter how
      carefully a wizard cleaned up after himself, traces of magic
      remained on anything it had been cast upon, whether mineral,
      vegetable, or animal — or Muggle. "If some wizard could remove
      every trace of his enchantments on Monroe, I'd like to meet
      him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That doesn't leave us many options," Fred's mask showed Intense
      Concentration once again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know," Harry replied levelly. "I may have to hire the three
      of you to try and sleuth this out, if we can't come up with a
      reasonable hypothesis or two to work with during this meeting. If I
      didn't know better," he continued, smiling behind his Joker mask,
      "I'd think <em class="calibre7">you</em> did this — it has all the earmarks of the
      Rita Skeeter scandal you pulled back in 1991, when she was out to
      get me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred and George's masks glanced toward each other, Wry
      Embarrassment flashing across them. "Harry," Fred said, looking
      back at him. "There's something we never told you about that
      prank…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">What</em>?" Harry shouted, his Joker face almost mirroring
      the look of stunned surprise on his hidden face. "<em class="calibre7">You don't
      know how you did that</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's why we never told you," George admitted, his mask showing
      Sheepish Chagrin. "We didn't know ourselves."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The first time Harry had learned the details of <em class="calibre7">The Prank of
      the Century</em> (which is how he had thought of it ever since it
      happened) was when he purchased a copy of the <em class="calibre7">Daily
      Prophet</em> during a trip to Diagon Alley with Professor Quirrell
      to get some Christmas spending money from his vault at Gringotts on
      the first Sunday of October 1991. The headline had read:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">Harry Potter</strong><br class="calibre4"/>
      <strong class="calibre8">Secretly Betrothed</strong><br class="calibre4"/>
      <strong class="calibre8">to Ginevra Weasley</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The evidence provided by the article had been quite compelling.
      Skeeter had claimed to have seen the original proceedings of the
      restricted Wizengamot session that heard the details of the
      contract between one Arthur Weasley (Fred, George and Ron's father)
      and one James Potter (Harry's father) that included testimony by
      the Grand Manager of Gringotts, one of the Ministry's Unspeakables,
      a Bavarian seer, a few centaurs, as well as a prophecy involving,
      apparently, Harry, Ginny, and He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named, even though
      no names had been named. Skeeter's article had gone on at length
      with all the lurid details about Mr. Weasley's desperation and
      greed, James Potter's cunning and his manipulation of the
      situation, and the final approval of the goblin Grand Manager, who
      had affixed the Great Seal of Gringotts to the contract, which
      demanded the hand in marriage of Ginevra Weasley, recently born at
      that time, to Harry James Potter, James Potter's son, in payment
      for the debt Arthur Weasley owed him, a debt incurred when James
      Potter, an Auror, had killed a Death Eater who had placed Mr.
      Weasley under the Imperius Curse, thus freeing him. In return, Mr.
      Weasley had demanded a bride price of ten thousand Galleons.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The only problem with all of this compelling evidence was that
      it was completely contradicted by the facts. The original
      proceedings of the Wizengamot contained details on no such
      betrothal, the dragon-guarded vault supposedly holding the
      betrothal contract held no such contract, and Arthur Weasley, when
      questioned by the Ministry, remembered no such contract with James
      Potter, whom he barely knew, nor even that he had ever been
      Imperiused. The veracity of the article in shambles, both Skeeter
      and the editor of the <em class="calibre7">Prophet</em> had disappeared shortly
      thereafter, presumably shamed beyond all recovery.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had pleaded, begged, had even whined abjectly, trying to
      get Fred and George to reveal the details of how they had done it,
      but they had merely grinned evilly and left Harry hanging. Until
      this very day, he had never known that the twins themselves could
      never figure how they had done all that with the forty Galleons
      seed money Harry had given them to publicly humiliate Rita Skeeter
      at her own game.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the here and now, he was staring at the twin golden masks in
      outraged confusion. "<em class="calibre7">It's been</em> <em class="calibre7">twenty-five</em>
      <em class="calibre7">bloody years</em>! Why didn't you tell me before
      <em class="calibre7">now</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">George's mask took on the image of Bewildered Innocence. "We
      just never thought about it after that day you asked us to tell you
      what we'd done, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Never <em class="calibre7">thought</em> about it?" This outburst came,
      surprisingly, from Ron. "Didn't you know Ginny <em class="calibre7">read</em> that
      article in the <em class="calibre7">Prophet</em>? Dad brought home a copy of the
      paper the Monday after it appeared in the paper, to show Mum, and
      Ginny got ahold of it somehow! She wrote me asking if it was true,
      was she really betrothed to Harry Potter! I tried telling it
      couldn't be true, that Dad would never do anything like that, but
      she wanted me to ask <em class="calibre7">you two</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which you never did," Fred pointed out, laconically, though his
      mask, and George's, were both showing Mortified Empathy on it for
      their sister.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right, what was I gonna say — 'Hey Fred and George, did Dad
      really sell Ginny's hand in marriage to Harry Potter's father for
      ten thousand Galleons?' If he did, he never spent a Knut of that on
      <em class="calibre7">us</em>!" Ron's Ghostface mask didn't change expression like
      Fred and George's, but Harry could feel the Outraged Anger
      radiating from the youngest Weasley brother. "Mum wrote me a few
      days later, the Aurors came and talked to Dad, and they cleared him
      of doing anything wrong, but they never told Ginny a thing —
      figured she was too young to understand…" Ron's mask was shaking
      back and forth. "But she's always believed that someday Harry would
      tell her that they were supposed to be together, that he had to —
      m-marry — Hermione for political reasons…" Ron's mask glanced
      momentarily toward Harry, who could feel the look of bitter
      resentment that Ron shot at him behind his mask. "I can't believe
      you two never figured that out about her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ron, look —" George began, his voice conciliatory. "We'll tell
      Ginny, we'll make things right with her —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Damn <em class="calibre7">straight</em> you will," Ron growled, anger still
      radiating from him. He folded his arms across his chest and turned
      away from them, looking as if he would refuse to say anything else
      during the meeting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Well</em>, Harry thought. <em class="calibre7">Things certainly weren't going
      as he'd hoped they would during this meeting</em>. But perhaps that
      was appropriate for a group that called itself the "Lords of
      Chaos." Ginny had been nursing a secret crush on him, all these
      years? It explained a few things about her that Harry noted over
      the years — the Muggle training she'd taken after retiring from the
      Holyoke Harpies, all of time she'd spent with him at TBC working
      late into the evening to finish projects; even her marriage to Dean
      Thomas, whom she'd dated while at Hogwarts, when Harry brought Dean
      onboard TBC as his head of security; Dean left the Auror Department
      at the Ministry to come work for him, for better pay and
      benefits.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But all of this was still secondary to his primary motivation
      for calling this meeting: Harry still had to work out how Monroe
      could have been at Hogwarts in 1991 when he was clearly a Muggle,
      and had never been seen again at Hogwarts by any of them gathered
      here. Until he did that, his ultimate goal was in jeopardy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We'll set things straight with Ginny," Harry agreed, quietly.
      "I'll talk to her when I get back —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron laughed, a single harsh, barking sound. "Why bother?" he
      said bitterly, his mask still turned away from the other three
      Lords of Chaos. "You've got your perfect little life — why muck
      with it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ron!" Fred said sharply. "It's not Harry's fault —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe it is," Harry interrupted. "I did ask you and George to
      take on my Rita Skeeter project. And, however it was accomplished,
      Ginny and your parents were pulled into it. That makes it my
      fault." He was looking at Ron as he said it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We don't see it that way, Harry," George argued. "You had no
      idea what we were going to come up with. Neither did we, for that
      matter." Both Fred and George's masks were showing Sheepish
      Embarrassment. "The last thing either of us remembers is that old
      Ambrosius Flume turned down our request for his help in the Skeeter
      scam. We figured Flume pointed us to someone who could help us, but
      wanted us Obliviated afterwards so we couldn't implicate him in the
      scam if we were questioned."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's all well and good," Ron said, still looking away from
      all of them. "But didn't you at least <em class="calibre7">consider</em> what a
      prank like that was going to do to Ginny, not to mention Dad and
      Mum?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure they did," Harry answered before either Fred or George
      could open their mouths. "But, there's something else to consider
      as well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron's hood turned, bringing part of his Ghostface mask into
      view. "Like what?" he wanted to know.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That Fred and George weren't the ones who thought up the Prank
      — that someone else, someone who didn't bother to consider the
      consequences to your family, came up with it," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred and George both blinked at the same moment. "Harry," Fred
      said gently — it was gallant of Harry to try and exculpate them in
      Ron's eyes — but still! "Harry, that kind of Prank is right up our
      alley, chaotically speaking. George and I <em class="calibre7">must have</em> come
      up with it — we just don't know how we pulled it off on a budget of
      forty Galleons."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unless whoever Obliviated you put the suggestion in your minds
      that you had come up with the Prank," Harry pointed out. Fred and
      George's masks frowned with Obstinate Stubbornness at that — it was
      inconceivable that, after all these years, they might <em class="calibre7">not</em>
      have come up with the Prank of the Century.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Who</em> could have done it, then?" Fred wanted to know.
      "Nobody even questioned us about it, but we were the obvious
      choices among the student body at Hogwarts, except for, well,
      <em class="calibre7">you</em>, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had been questioned by Aurors, under Veritaserum, with
      Dumbledore present and giving the Aurors scary looks, and had been
      completely exonerated. "Right," Harry agreed. "<em class="calibre7">Among the
      students</em>," he added, pointedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred and George's masks grinned with Skeptical Humor. "You think
      a teacher had something to do with it?" Fred asked, doubtfully,
      then looked to George with Stunned Realization on his mask. "Wait a
      mo'," he said. "There was that thing with Dumbledore in the
      hallway, afterwards…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's Joker mask leaned forward intently. "What do you mean?
      What happened?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We were walking down a seventh-floor corridor a day or two
      later," George explained, "and Dumbledore walked past us. He
      happened to sneeze just then, and a small package slipped out of
      one of his pockets without him noticing. Or, we thought so at the
      time. Fred and I picked up the package and started to call him
      back, but we noticed a tag on the package that read "to Fred and
      George" on it. We opened it and found two WardMaster 1000
      ward-breaking monocles in it. Real top-of-the-line magic, those
      WardMasters.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"At the time," George went on. "We just thought Dumbledore was
      rewarding us for a job well done. It never occurred to either of us
      until just now that he might've done that to make us think we'd
      actually come up with the Prank. We never thought that Dumbledore
      himself might have been behind it!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And we never told anyone about those monocles until now," Fred
      added. "Not even Lee Jordan. If anyone found out we had them, we'd
      have been in McGonagall's office faster than a Firebolt Mark V,
      getting a lecture and probably detention for a <em class="calibre7">year</em>, if
      not outright expulsion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You never even told <em class="calibre7">me</em>!" Ron snapped in an outraged
      tone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just protecting you, little brother," Fred said, smoothly and
      soothingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And ourselves," George added, his mask displaying a Roguish
      Grin. "You never could keep a secret, Ron." Ron's robed shoulders
      gave a small, angry shrug.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's another possibility," Harry spoke up once again. "It
      might've been Quirrell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The room went completely silent for several seconds. "Quirrell
      read Skeeter's article in the <em class="calibre7">Prophet</em> right after I did,"
      he said. "And <em class="calibre7">at the time</em> he seemed quite surprised when I
      told him that someone at Hogwarts had pulled it off."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You didn't tell him you'd asked <em class="calibre7">us</em> —?" Fred's mask
      wore a look of Incredulity.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry shook his head. "But he guessed it was you two. I
      thought he'd figured it out on his own. But if anyone other than
      Dumbledore was capable of pulling off the Prank, it was him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was more silence. Even Ron had turned back to face them
      when Quirrell was mentioned. No one wanted to mention all the
      trouble the Defense professor had caused for Harry by the end of
      his first year at Hogwarts. But, it had all been resolved and Harry
      had come out on top, somewhat surprisingly — Quirrell had been
      quite good at his job of Defense professor that year, and he had
      been much more formidable as an adversary than as a teacher and
      mentor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So…" Fred said, after some time had passed. "How do we figure
      out whether Quirrell has got anything to do with this Monroe
      journalist?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He can't have!" Ron objected. "He's dead!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded slowly. "He <em class="calibre7">should</em> be dead, that's true.
      But short of coming up with the Resurrection Stone, assuming
      <em class="calibre7">it</em> does what the stories say it does, we have no way of
      testing that idea."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone fell quiet after that, trying to see some way that
      Quirrell could still be alive. But none of them, save for Harry,
      knew the truth behind Quirinus Quirrell and why he'd come to
      Hogwarts in the fall of 1991. <em class="calibre7">That</em> was a secret he
      intended never to divulge to another person, living or dead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How much longer are they going to be?" A harried Verity asked
      during a rare lull in the rush of customers that bustled through
      their shop during the course of a normal business day. She glanced
      upward, as if she could see through the ceiling of Weasleys' Wizard
      Wheezes into the room where they were gathered with Harry
      Potter-Evans-Verres, probably discussing their glory days at
      Hogwarts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They haven't had a meeting with Harry in years now," Angelina
      reminded her. "Probably a lot of catching-up to do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They can have business lunches <em class="calibre7">after</em> work, you know,"
      Verity complained, watching potential customers looking through the
      front windows of their shop. "They're called business
      <em class="calibre7">dinners</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From behind the counter Luna, who had just finished ringing up a
      customer's purchases, smiled dreamily and mused, "I think it's
      interesting when the men aren't on the floor — we seem to sell so
      much more when they're away, don't you think?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is that how it seems?" Angelina asked, amused. "I always
      thought we just do a better job of selling than they do —
      especially Ron."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ron would have made a better Auror than a salesman," Luna
      replied. "But he didn't think he could get the five N.E.W.T.S. he
      needed to join the program. Novelty salesman was a good second
      choice for him, I suppose."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Would you still be working with your father on the
      <em class="calibre7">Quibbler</em> if you hadn't married Ron?" Verity asked Luna,
      then walked off to help a customer who was looking around for some
      help.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I still do help Father," Luna answered, not realizing Verity
      was gone. "Especially when he needs a particularly insightful
      headline. I gave him that one for last month's issue." She pulled a
      copy of the issue out from under the counter, showing the headline
      emblazoned across the top of the front page:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">Head Auror Malfoy</strong><br class="calibre4"/>
      <strong class="calibre8">Secretly Betrothed to</strong><br class="calibre4"/>
      <strong class="calibre8">Minerva McGonagall's Ghost.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Angelina smiled. "One of the classics," she said, nodding
      appreciatively. "Right up there with the Harry secretly betrothed
      to <em class="calibre7">you</em>, Luna."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna turned protuberant eyes on George's wife. "He <em class="calibre7">was</em>
      secretly betrothed to me, but he and Father worked out an
      agreement. It's very hush-hush, I'm not even supposed to
      <em class="calibre7">think</em> about it, much less talk about it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I guess we'd better forget you even mentioned it, then,"
      Angelina grinned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You should," Luna said, seriously. "I'll have to remember to
      forget about it as well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Angelina nodded, turning to hide her amusement from Luna, who
      was very sweet and a wonderful person, even if she was barmy as a
      bagful of ferrets.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The shop was beginning to slow down some, now that lunch was
      over for everyone (<em class="calibre7">almost everyone</em>, Angelina reminded
      herself, thinking of Verity's annoyance with their husbands' very
      long lunch with Harry Potter). But if Harry Potter-Evans-Verres
      could spare an hour and a half for lunch with old friends, who were
      they to argue with him, and them? Being "in business" with Harry
      had never been anything but good for Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes; they
      received rental discounts and perks at Gringotts that no other
      business had, and as far as Angelina could tell, rental space here
      in Diagon Alley hadn't changed in years, for anyone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It would be interesting to hear the conversation that had been
      going on upstairs for the past ninety minutes, Angelina reflected.
      Harry Potter-Evans-Verres was a very interesting wizard; he'd left
      Hogwarts with six N.E.W.T.S., a tie with Albus Dumbledore back in
      1899. And <em class="calibre7">then</em> he'd gone on to college at Oxford,
      graduating with two degrees in three-and-a-half years. Within a
      year after graduating from that prestigious Muggle institution, he
      had started a corporation and built it into a global power.
      Somewhere in there he'd found the time to take over Gringotts from
      the goblins and buy up most of the property in Diagon Alley. If
      Angelina had known the Ravenclaw a little better she might have
      taken a run at him herself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But she and George had grown close over their years at Hogwarts,
      and he was certainly more approachable than Harry had been, back
      then, even after he and Fred started WWW. She might have married
      Harry Potter for happiness (and money, lots and lots of money), but
      she married George for love. She could only hope Fred and Verity
      had married for the same reason.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron and Luna were a different matter. Angelina was virtually
      certain that Ron had "settled" for Luna, even though she was
      equally certain that they loved one another. It was pretty obvious
      to anyone who saw Ron on a regular basis, though, that his soulmate
      was someone else — someone that was now married to Harry Potter.
      The question was — had Luna figured it out by now? Angelina
      certainly hoped not, though she couldn't see how Luna could have
      missed it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But then, Luna was bat-dung crazy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Angelina's thoughts were interrupted by a customer who had
      wandered close to where she was standing. The man was looking
      around as if he'd never seen a place like WWW before — evidently he
      was a first-time customer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"May I help you find something, sir?" she asked, walking toward
      him. The man started slightly, surprised that she'd spoken to him,
      then scratched his head sheepishly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm just looking," he said, perhaps a bit too quickly to be
      completely true. He was staring at her, looking for all the world
      like he wanted to ask another question but wasn't sure he should.
      Finally, he seemed to come to a decision.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I — ah, thought I might find Harry Potter here," he said,
      hesitantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Angelina blinked. "As a matter of fact, he is," she replied.
      "But he's in a meeting at the moment. It shouldn't last much longer
      —" she hoped, it had been going on for over 90 minutes by now! "—
      if you'd care to wait for him to come down."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," the man said, then looked around the store again.
      "All of this looks very fascinating. Are you one of the
      Weasleys?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm married to George Weasley," she told him. "He's one of the
      owners of the shop. Is there anything you'd like to look at while
      you're waiting for Mr. Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man looked around for a second, then seemed to select one of
      the items off the shelf at random. "What's this do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A Shield Hat," Angelina nodded, taking it from him. "When you
      put it on it activates an invisible Shield Charm — you can
      challenge your friends to try and jinx or hex you, and the shield
      will protect you from most minor spells. Guaranteed for at least
      one hundred Shields or your money back."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man took the hat and was nodding as if he understood, but
      there was a look in his eyes that made Angelina think he was hiding
      something. She took the hat from him and casually placed it back on
      the shelf. "If you're not interested in that," she said, leading
      him to another shelf, "we have a variety of novelty wands that will
      do anything from turning into a rubber chicken when waved to
      leaping out of the wielder's hand and beating him about the head
      and shoulders."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you have any real wands?" the man asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Angelina gave him an odd look. "You can buy real wands at
      Ollivanders, a few doors down. Mr. Ollivander has passed on, of
      course, but it's being run now by another one of the Weasley
      brothers, Bill, for ten years now. Bill took over the business when
      Mr. Ollivander died in 2006."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can a non-magical person use a wand?" the man asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Another</em> odd question! "Of course not," Angelina said,
      frowning. "Only wizards can use wands. Why would you even
      <em class="calibre7">ask</em> that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry," the man muttered, looking away from her and toward the
      stairs near the back of the shop. "I — guess I just wasn't
      thinking. I'll just wait for Mr. Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But by now Angelina had gotten suspicious. "What's your business
      with Mr. Potter, if I may ask?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I just have to talk to him," the man said, evasively. "We have
      some unfinished business to attend to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You might have gone to his business address for that," Angelina
      said, evenly. "Yet you chose to come here. Why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man was silent for some time before finally shaking his
      head. "I thought it would be better to meet him here than at his
      business office. Things didn't work out very well the last time I
      met him there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What happened?" Angelina asked. <em class="calibre7">How</em> did this man know
      Harry Potter? He didn't seem like any wizard she'd ever met before,
      but Muggles <em class="calibre7">couldn't</em> get into Diagon Alley without someone
      with a wand helping them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man put on a wry expression. "I don't think he ever expected
      to see me again," he said, flatly. "But here I am, like the cat
      that came back the very next day."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Angelina shook her head. "I don't think that's a good idea, sir.
      Harry Potter is not someone you should be messing with, no matter
      who you are. You haven't told me your name yet, by the way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My name?" the man replied. "I'm James Monroe."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
