<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Oh God Not Again pt1 - Oh God Not Again! Chapter 1, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Oh God Not Again pt1"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: I do not own Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: Please be aware that this is a parody. I know that this
      may seem redundant as that is made clear as it is labeled 'parody'
      in the genre section at the top but some people do not look at that
      apparently and I have gotten quite a few reviews from people who
      thought it was too over-the-top to enjoy until they noticed that it
      was a parody. If you are one of those people then be sure to be
      aware of this now: THIS IS A PARODY.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Also, this story had at least twenty chapters published before
      'A Very Potter Musical' even came out. I didn't even hear of it,
      let alone SEE it until after this story was completed. Please keep
      that in mind when wondering if the 'references' to the musical are
      intentional.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd been dreaming of it since the defeat of Voldemort. The
      Veil, that is. The one that Sirius had fallen behind. The last time
      he'd dreamed about the Department of Mysteries, Sirius had died.
      The world had also finally woken up to the truth about Voldemort,
      but the price had been too high for him to be grateful. And once
      the truth was out, the attacks had gotten worse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He wondered, briefly, why he was there. Ginny was at home, she
      was pregnant, she needed him. Yet he could not seem to stay away.
      Voldemort was gone, true. But then, so were so many other people,
      good people, who should not have died.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He counted the steps until he was standing right in front of
      where Sirius had fallen through. Cedric. Sirius. Dumbledore.
      Hedwig. Moody. Dobby. Tonks father. Remus. Colin Creevy. Tonks.
      Snape. Fred. Hell, even Crabbe didn't deserve to die then. There
      were more, many more, but none of them close to him. They were
      close to somebody, though. Maybe that was why he couldn't stay
      away. Why he couldn't look away. Why, even at that very moment, he
      couldn't walk away.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry awoke with a start. He was lying on a floor, covered by a
      poor excuse for a blanket, and someone appeared to be attempting to
      break the door down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where's the cannon?" Dudley asked. Dudley? Where had the Veil
      sent him? Could this be when Hagrid first told him about Hogwarts?
      It must be, because he couldn't recall any other time where he and
      Dudley had been sleeping in what appeared to be a shack.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a crash behind them and Uncle Vernon came skidding
      into the room, holding a rifle. Harry snorted. Like that would do
      any good against HAGRID. His uncle didn't seem to know that,
      though, and shouted "Who's there? I warn you-I'm armed!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Although it did occur to Harry that when people were trying to
      break in, it can generally be assumed that they are probably armed
      as well. And as if they didn't know that a wizard had come for
      Harry. Who else COULD even get across in this weather, not to
      mention who else would even bother?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">SMASH! The door flew clean off its hinges and landed on the
      floor with a thunderous crash. Hagrid stood in the doorway, looking
      very impressive.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now, Harry hadn't exactly planned this, but he figured that he
      might as well make the best of it. Things hadn't exactly turned out
      terribly when he had taken down Voldemort, but they also hadn't
      been all that great. Maybe he was getting a second chance. And if
      that was the case, there was no way in hell he wasn't going to take
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Couldn't make a cup o' tea, could yeh? It's not been an easy
      journey…" Hagrid began. And completely ruined his frightening first
      impression. He strode over to the sofa where Dudley sat, petrified.
      "Budge up, yeh great lump," he told him, watching as Dudley ran to
      go hide behind his mother, who was in turn hiding behind her
      husband. "An' here's Harry! Las' time I saw you, you was only a
      baby. Yeh look a lot like yeh dad, buy yeh've got yer mum's
      eyes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I demand that you leave at once, sir!" Uncle Vernon demanded,
      making a funny rasping noise. "You are breaking and entering!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, shut up, Dursley, yeh great prune." Harry grinned. He had
      been much too confused to enjoy Hagrid's verbal throw down of his
      Uncle the last time around. When Hagrid reached over and turned the
      gun into a pretzel, Harry's grin only grew wider.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anyway," Hagrid said, turning his attention back to Harry as
      though people regularly went around turning deadly weapons into the
      shapes of tasty snack food. "Harry-a very happy birthday to yeh.
      Got summat fer yeh here-I mighta sat on it at some point, but it'll
      taste all right." He pulled out a cake that said 'Happy Birthday
      Harry' written on it in green icing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why, thank you," Harry said gratefully, accepting the cake. He
      did wish, though, that Hagrid hadn't used a Slytherin color, even
      if it did match his eyes. "You seem to know me, but if, as you
      said, we haven't seen each other since I was a baby, perhaps you
      could be so kind as to introduce yourself?" Harry asked
      politely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hagrid chuckled. "O' course, o' course. Rubeus Hagrid, Keeper of
      Keys and Grounds at Hogwarts." And with that, he shook Harry's arm
      up and down. "What about that tea then, eh? I'd not say no ter
      summat strong if yeh've got it, mind."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry, we left in rather a hurry, so we don't have anything
      to drink," Harry said apologetically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"S'alright, I've got summat here." Hagrid said, turning towards
      the fireplace and then back once he got a roaring fire going. He
      then proceeded to pull a good dozen or so things out of his coat
      pockets.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Uncle Vernon said sharply, "Don't touch anything he gives you,
      Dudley."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hagrid chuckled darkly. "Yer great puddin' of a son don' need
      fattenin' any more, Dursley, don' worry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hagrid passed Harry the sausages and he thanked him cordially
      for his thoughtfulness, then decided that it would be suspicious to
      just accept this and so asked Hagrid for more details.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Call me Hagrid, everyone does. An' like I told yeh, I'm Keeper
      of Keys at Hogwarts - yeh'll know all about Hogwarts, o'
      course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Of course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Uncle Vernon's eyes bulged. "YOU DO?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Harry answered calmly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But how? We were always so careful not to let you get any
      dangerous ideas! How'd you hear about all this wizarding
      nonsense?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now wait jus' one second!" Hagrid thundered, leaping to his
      feet. In his anger he seemed to fill the whole hut. The Dursleys
      cowered against the wall. "Do you mean ter tell me," he growled at
      the Dursleys, "that you told this boy - this boy - nothin' abou' -
      about ANYTHING?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry said, shaking his head ruefully. "They didn't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hagrid looked as if he was about to explode.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"DURSLEY!" he boomed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Uncle Vernon, who had gone very pale, whispered something that
      sounded like 'Mimblewimble'.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But-but if Daddy didn't tell Harry anything, how does he know?"
      Dudley asked, speaking up for the first time from behind his
      mother.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hagrid looked expectantly at Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fair point," Harry admitted. "Well, it's just that people have
      spent the last ten years following me around and shaking my hand
      and bowing to me, generally just appearing very honored to meet me
      and eventually you pick some things up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"'s not enough to 'pick thin's up,' Harry. You've got to
      <em class="calibre8">know</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I do know," Harry countered. "About Hogwarts, about my
      parents, about Voldemort…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hagrid shuddered. "<em class="calibre8">Don' say tha' name!"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "Old habits die hard. Although if I ever go
      camping again, I'll make sure to take your advice. Well, will be
      heading to Diagon Alley tomorrow?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"O' course," Hagrid nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I AM NOT PAYING FOR SOME CRACKPOT OLD FOOL TO TEACH HIM MAGIC
      TRICKS!" yelled Uncle Vernon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry might have known Uncle Vernon would insist on provoking
      Hagrid. Quick as a flash, he'd brought his umbrella, containing the
      pieces of his wand, swishing down through the air to point at
      Dudley.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A flash of violet light, loud boom, and pig squeal later, Dudley
      was dancing on the spot with his hands clasped over his fat bottom,
      howling in pain. When he turned around, Harry could see the curly
      pig's tail poking a hole through the back of his pants.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Uncle Vernon roared. Pulling Aunt Petunia and Dudley into the
      other room, he cast one last terrified look at Hagrid and slammed
      the door behind them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hagrid looked down at his umbrella and stroked his beard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shouldn'ta lost me temper," he said ruefully, "but it didn't
      work anyway. Meant ter turn him into a pig, but I suppose he was so
      much like a pig anyway there wasn't much left ter do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He cast a sideways look at Harry under his bushy eyebrows.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Be grateful if yeh didn't mention that ter anyone at Hogwarts,"
      he said. "I'm - er - not supposed ter do magic, strictly speakin'.
      I was allowed ter do a bit ter follow yeh an' get yer letters to
      yeh an' stuff - one o' the reasons I was so keen ter take on the
      job -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course not," Harry assured him. "It's getting late, so we
      should probably turn in."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right you are, Harry," Hagrid agreed. "We've got lots ter do
      tomorrow. Gotta get up ter town, get al yer books and all that." He
      took off his thick black coat and threw it to Harry. "You can kip
      under that," he said. "Don't' mind if it wriggles a bit, I think I
      still got a couple o' dormice in one o' the pockets."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry woke early the next morning. Although he could tell it was
      daylight, he kept his eyes shut tight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">It was a dream,</em> he told himself firmly. <em class="calibre8">I dreamt I
      was back to when Hagrid came to tell me I was going to a Hogwarts.
      When I open my eyes I'll be at home with Ginny.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was suddenly a loud tapping noise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">And there's Hedwig Jr. knocking on the window,</em> Harry
      thought, relieved, still not getting up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tap. Tap. Tap.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All right," Harry mumbled, "I'm getting up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He sat up and Hagrid's heavy coat fell off him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The hut was full of sunlight, the storm was over, Hagrid himself
      was asleep on the collapsed sofa and there was an owl rapping its
      claw on the window, a newspaper held in its beak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's heart sank. It hadn't been a dream after all. He quickly
      paid the owl and handed the Daily Prophet to Hagrid. He then
      listened patiently as the half-giant explained to him about
      Gringotts. Then they got into the Dursley's boat and headed off
      towards London and Diagon Alley.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Leaving the Dursley's to fend for themselves.</em> Realized
      Harry with malicious glee. He knew they'd get home before he would
      and besides, it really served them right.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All too soon they were in the Leaky Cauldron. As before,
      everyone was very eager to shake his hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eventually, a pale young man made his way to Harry, his left eye
      twitching something terrible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor Quirrell!" said Hagrid. "Harry, Professor Quirrell
      will be one of your teachers at Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"P-P-Potter," stammered Professor Quirrell, grasping Harry's
      hand, "c-can't t-tell you how p-pleased I am to meet you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry briefly wondered how he could stand touching him, but
      realized he must not have been possessed yet. Probably wouldn't be
      until he failed to secure the stone. He also wondered why in the
      world he felt the need to stutter the whole year. He could appear
      perfectly innocent (especially compared to the likes of Severus
      Snape) just fine without it, and quite frankly it was annoying.
      Besides, according to Snape's memory, Dumbledore had been onto
      Quirrell from the beginning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He supposed that Hagrid neglected to mention that this was
      Quirrell's first year teaching so as not to freak him out with the
      DADA job curse. He decided to bring that up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So how long have you been teaching?" he inquired.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"W-w-well, actually, th-this is m-m-my f-first year, but I'm
      v-very excited," Quirrell said, looking a bit sheepish.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What subject do you teach?" Harry asked, knowing the answer
      perfectly well, but that was just the sort of question people asked
      their future teachers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"D-Defence Against the D-D-Dark Arts," muttered Professor
      Quirrell, as though he'd rather not think about it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Yes, Quirrell, and his master, Voldemort, would probably be MUCH
      happier without such pesky things as defenses against the Dark Arts
      being taught.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"N-not that you n-need it, eh, P-P-Potter?" he laughed
      nervously. "You'll be g-getting all your equipment, I suppose? I've
      g-got to p-pick up a new b-book on vampires, m-myself." He looked
      terrified at the very thought. Harry marveled when he thought about
      the fact that this was the very first person he could remember
      trying to kill him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The other patrons of the bar quickly interrupted and it took
      nearly ten minutes for Hagrid to extricate Harry from his throng of
      admirers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Things progressed pretty much the same from then on, until it
      was time to go to Madam Malkin's to get his uniform.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Harry went inside, he froze. He'd almost forgotten about
      his first meeting with Draco Malfoy, here before either of them
      knew anything about the path that was chosen for the other. Because
      they were archrivals. Before he found out that Draco, though
      undoubtedly unpleasant, wasn't evil and had more-or-less redeemed
      himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Hm</em>, Harry thought. <em class="calibre8">Could be fun.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello," said Draco. "Hogwarts, too?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Harry nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My father's next door buying my books and mother's up the
      street looking at wands," said Malfoy. He had the same bored,
      drawling voice at eleven as he did at twenty-three.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not much point of that until you get there, though, right?"
      Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True, but she needs something to do while I'm in here. After
      that I'm going to drag them off to look at racing brooms. I don't
      see why first-years can't have their own. I think I'll bully father
      into getting me one and I'll smuggle it in somehow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They probably won't check the luggage, so if you just shrink
      it, you can carry it in and then unshrink it once you're there. Of
      course, you'd have to claim it belonged to an older student if
      anyone asked, but that shouldn't be too difficult," Harry
      suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco looked at Harry approvingly. "That just might work. I'd
      have to learn how to unshrink things, but until then I could get an
      older student to do that, as well. Say, have you got your own
      broom?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not at the moment," Harry answered, noncommittally.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Play Quidditch at all?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course, I'm seeker. You?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Same. Father says it's a crime if I'm not picked to play for my
      house, and I must say, I agree. Know what house you'll be in
      yet?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think I'd like to be in Gryffindor. I hear they have the best
      parties."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that's okay, if you're into that sort of thing. I'm going
      to be in Slytherin, all our family has been there-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that's okay, if you're into that sort of thing," Harry
      interrupted and he could've sworn he say Draco's mouth twitch
      upwards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Imagine being in Hufflepuff, I think I'd leave, wouldn't
      you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, maybe not LEAVE…that's a bit drastic, but I'd definitely
      defect. I mean, Hufflepuff sounds like a brand of marshmallows or
      pillows or something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This time he knew he wasn't imagining it. Draco Malfoy, fighting
      a smile because of something he, Harry Potter, had said. He never
      thought he'd see the day! This actually was sort of fun. Why
      weren't they friends again?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I say, look at that man!" Harry turned to where Draco was
      pointing and saw Hagrid standing outside the window, grinning at
      Harry and pointing to two large ice-creams to show that he couldn't
      come in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's Hagrid. He works at Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I've heard of him. He's sort of a servant, isn't he?" Oh.
      That's why.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's the gamekeeper."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, exactly," Draco nodded impatiently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, not exactly, there's a difference between a gamekeeper and
      a servant. Maybe not a profound difference, but it'd definitely
      something that any Manor Lord should know," Harry said, knowing
      full well that Draco would inherit Malfoy Manor someday. He was
      pleased to note Draco's ears were pink.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I heard he's a sort of savage-lives in a hut in the school
      grounds and every now and then he gets drunk, tries to do magic and
      ends up setting fire to his bed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," Harry said, remembering how Hagrid had carried him back
      to Hogwarts when Voldemort had nearly killed him and struggling to
      keep his temper. "I'd wager a guess that it's a bit difficult to do
      magic when drunk under the best of circumstances. And not everyone
      can live in Manors. If they did, then it wouldn't be so special,
      now would it, and people would have to find new ways to flaunt
      their wealth."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco nodded, considering. "You're right, I never thought I'd
      say this, but the Hagrid's of the world are needed to contrast with
      the right sort of people." Now, Harry knew exactly what he meant by
      'the right sort of people,' but pretended he didn't to avoid a
      scene. "Hey, is he with you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Harry said simply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why? Where are your parents?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Godric's Hollow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why didn't they come with you, then?" Draco pressed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, they would have, but Voldemort killed them, see," Harry
      explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco's eyes widened. "You said the Dark Lord's name!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Yes. Yes I did."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco didn't seem to be able to think of anything to say to
      that, so instead he asked, "But they were our kind, weren't
      they?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry fought the urge to roll his eyes. "If they weren't, why
      would Voldemort bother with them personally? He was rather busy and
      important near the end, or so I hear, and had other people to kill
      Muggles for him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I really don't think they should let Muggleborns in, do you?
      They're just not the same; they've never been brought up to know
      our ways. Some of them have never even heard of Hogwarts until they
      get the letter, imagine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I don't think it's not having heard of Hogwarts that
      should concern you, per say, as much as they haven't heard about
      magic or know anything about our culture," Harry said, not really
      answering the question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, that's exactly why I think they should keep it in the old
      wizarding families. What's your last name, anyway?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before Harry could answer, Madam Malkins said, "That's you done
      my dear." Harry briefly wondered why he was done first when he had
      come in after Draco, but decided not to dwell on it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I'll see you at Hogwarts, I suppose," Draco said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Later. See if you can guess my last name by then and tell me on
      the train."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will," Draco said, suddenly determined.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Shortly after that, Harry and Hagrid had purchased all of
      Harry's supplies and he was back with the Dursley's. The last month
      wasn't so bad. His Aunt and Uncle mostly ignored him and Dudley ran
      from the room screaming when he saw him. It wasn't so bad, really,
      as he had had plenty of experience with people ignoring and/or
      fearing him in his first year, second year, fourth year, and fifth
      year for getting caught after getting rid of Norbert, being a
      Parselmouth, being the fourth champion, and being a lying
      schizophrenic, respectively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One thing he did do was make sure he memorized his potion's
      textbook. He was not taking ANY chances there. Snape may have loved
      his mother, but he sure as hell hated him until he died.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On the last day of August, Harry went down to the living room
      and cleared his throat, watching with some amusement as Dudley
      screamed and ran from the room. Harry supposed that that was what
      happened when Dudley's parents encouraged him to make Harry's life
      miserable and kept him in the dark about Harry having magical
      powers. "Um-Uncle Vernon?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Uncle Vernon grunted to show he was listening.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I need to be at King's Cross tomorrow to go to Hogwarts."
      Another grunt. "Would it be alright if you gave me a lift?" Grunt.
      "Thank you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Funny way to get to a wizards' school, the train. Magic carpets
      all got punctures, have they?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, but they're illegal in Britain, and I doubt they'd trust us
      to go straight to school and not let ourselves be seen if we each
      had one. Not to mention how expensive it would be…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where is this school, anyway?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Scotland," Harry replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can you be any more specific?" Uncle Vernon asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Planning on coming up for Family Day?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Aunt Petunia looked horrified. "They have <em class="calibre8">Family Day</em>
      now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All right, we'll take you to King's Cross. We're going up to
      London tomorrow anyway, or I wouldn't bother."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Great," Harry said and left. To think-only one more day and
      he'd be back at Hogwarts. And…he'd get to see Ginny, too, if only
      briefly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Yes, things might just work out after all, if he could keep his
      temper this time around and not alienate the press and the
      Ministry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Oh boy. This was going to be a LONG seven years.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: While Harry does, in fact, miss his wife he's not going to
      start lusting after a ten-year-old so please no preemptive
      accusations of me being a hypocrite because my profile mentions I
      view that as pedophilia. IT'S NOT IN THE STORY.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Review please!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
