<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Oh God Not Again pt1 - Oh God Not Again! Chapter 12, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Oh God Not Again pt1"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s12" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 12</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: I do not own Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: Sorry it took so long for me to update. Between making
      personalized Christmas Cards and studying for finals (not to
      mention actually <em class="calibre8">taking</em> them), I was kind of swamped. And
      I gotta say, 80 reviews...just...wow. You guys are great.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Professor McGonagall handed out the schedules, she paused to
      inform Harry and Ron that Ron's parents had flooed over their
      trunks. Surprisingly, Harry had completely forgotten that he'd left
      the trunks in the car when he'd sent it back and so he hadn't even
      been worried. He probably would have noticed that they didn't have
      any belongings at the school except that the all-night party had
      ended just half an hour ago, so there really hadn't been time. That
      would explain how Mrs. Weasley knew that they'd taken the car,
      though. Ah well, the lack of supplies could have been really bad
      but catastrophe averted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione had wanted to head out to the greenhouses early, but
      Ron and Harry insisted on going back for their supplies. According
      to her, they shouldn't have been so irresponsible as to forget
      them, but, well, they were.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once they finally reached the greenhouses, they saw the rest of
      the class already standing outside. And pointing and laughing at
      the panicked expression on Ron, Neville, and Hermione's faces as
      the four raced across the grounds. Harry, on the other hand, would
      have preferred being late as that almost certainly would have ended
      up meaning a loss of house points. Speaking of, maybe he should
      admit to hijacking the car after all, that should be good for at
      least a hundred points lost. Still, Harry wasn't quite sure if that
      would be worth the 'one more toe out of line' threat or giving up
      the notoriety of getting away with it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Sprout didn't even seem to notice their tardiness,
      however, as she was too busy trying to see just how much her body
      language could scream 'GO AWAY AND SHUT UP I DON'T CARE' to
      Gilderoy Lockhart before he'd take a hint. Unfortunately for her,
      Lockhart was immune to such mundane things as whether or not his
      listener was seconds away from stabbing him with a spade.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Greenhouse Three today chaps!" Professor Sprout managed to get
      out when Lockhart paused to take a breath. When Lockhart's eyes
      swept over the class appraisingly, she made good her escape.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry, still looking to lose points, took his time and paid for
      that dearly. No sooner had he begun to lag behind then Lockhart
      spotted him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry!" Lockhart shouted, sounding far more enthusiastic than
      he had any right being. "I've been wanting a word – you don't mind
      if he's a couple minutes late, do you…Oh dear, I do believe she's
      left already. Well, I'm sure she won't mind at any rate." He eyed
      Harry critically. "Harry, Harry, Harry. When I heard - well, of
      course, it was all my fault. Could have kicked myself. Don't know
      when I've been more shocked. Flying a car to Hogwarts!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, actually Professor, the rumor is that I flew a car to the
      Express. And I'm not actually admitting to anything, mind you, so
      you don't need to worry that people will think you've been a bad
      influence on me," Harry reassured him, wondering vaguely why
      Lockhart felt the need to keep saying his name. It was kind of
      creepy. And rather irritating; he didn't like his name
      <em class="calibre8">that</em> much.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart chuckled. "Of course, of course. It'll be our little
      secret. Still, of course, I knew at once why you'd done it. Stood
      out a mile. Harry, Harry, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry twitched. Seriously, if Lockhart didn't quit this annoying
      habit of repeating his name over and over and sounding rather
      perverted, Harry couldn't possibly be held responsible for his
      actions during the Cornish Pixie…lesson, he supposed was the word,
      but they really hadn't learned anything except Hermione was smarter
      than their Defense Against the Dark Arts Professor and really,
      hadn't they all already thought that? Well, the male students, at
      least. And the non-enamored females.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because I under the mistaken impression that you were Draco
      Malfoy, you didn't get to make the front page with me and so you
      had no choice but to fly a car <em class="calibre8">to the Express</em> in order to
      finally get that publicity I just know you've been craving,"
      Lockhart beamed, clearly proud.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry just stared at Lockhart. Did he even read the paper?
      "But…I didn't make the front page. It wasn't even mentioned in the
      paper at all because no one has any proof that there's more truth
      in that than the persistent rumors that my Draco Malfoy is the
      lovechild of Narcissa Malfoy and Professor Snape."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart chuckled. "Ah, yes. I did hear about that. I didn't
      want to say anything, of course, but I've always suspected…in fact,
      I made sure to mention that fact in my autobiography. Now everyone
      can know the truth of such a touching love story. Why, it's a
      modern day Romeo and Juliet, isn't it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had to fight to the urge to burst out laughing. Oh, Draco
      was going to <em class="calibre8">kill</em> him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I feel obligated to warn you not to let the fame go to your
      head. You're still young; you should take it easy, alright? You'll
      have plenty of time to figure out what you want to be famous for,
      how to go about accomplishing that, and how to manage your fame
      when you're older. Getting yourself expelled for pulling stunts
      like these, well, it will certainly earn you a little notoriety in
      the short-term, but it won't last and it will put a damper on any
      and all future plans," Lockhart told him seriously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was shocked. He had no idea that Lockhart had put this
      much thought into cultivating his fame, but he supposed it made
      sense. After all, he'd as good as admitted that the only aspect of
      magic he was particularly proficient in was memory charms so to
      have built up the reputation he had only on the strength of one
      spell…Well, that was damn impressive, Harry was forced to
      acknowledge.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you need to be even more careful because a few people have
      heard of you, haven't they? All that business with
      He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named!" Lockhart laughed. "I know, it's not
      quite as good as winning Witch Weekly's Most Charming Smile Award
      five times in a row, as I have – but it's a start, Harry, it's a
      start."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dear God…Harry had been so confused and affronted that Lockhart
      thought he was just attention-seeking that he hadn't even realized
      but…Lockhart was <em class="calibre8">joking</em>. He didn't actually think that a
      smiling competition was more fame-worthy than mysteriously
      vanishing Voldemort. Maybe he wasn't such an idiot after all.
      Granted, he was still practically a Squib, too self-centered to pay
      attention to what anyone else thought of him, and unscrupulous as
      hell, but definitely not an idiot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor," Harry began as Lockhart was about to walk away.
      "Your style of fame seems to be to be the popularity contest kind.
      I mean, yes, your books detail the adventures of you dealing with
      Yeti, Werewolves, Vampires, and several other assortments of
      magical creatures but…that all seems to be besides the point, isn't
      it? Your readers don't buy the books because they really care about
      all of that, they just like you and your heroic deeds are just an
      excuse for them to get to hear more about you and keep you in the
      public eye. You make sure that you're always in the back of
      people's minds by winning contests like the Witch Weekly one you
      told me about. It's quite a clever strategy and if you don't do
      something really stupid, it should be able to evolve with the times
      and keep you in the public eye for as long as you choose to be
      so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart stared at Harry incredulously for a moment before he
      smirked. "Impressive. I take it that's not your style?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "No, I don't need to worry about people
      forgetting me because that's just never going to happen, at least
      not in my lifetime. I disappeared from the magical world for ten
      years immediately following my ascension to 'hero' status and yet
      parents have been telling their children bedtime stories about me
      all this time, despite the fact that no one even knew anything
      about what happened that night at Godric's Hollow. I don't need to
      remind people that I exist and since everyone is so enamored with
      me already, I can just basically do whatever I feel like because
      unless <em class="calibre8">I</em> do something really stupid, the bad PR resulting
      from expelling me or anything of the sorts would just make it not
      worth it. Using this immunity, I can bolster my fame and popularity
      among my peers by such daring escapades as last year's little
      Treasure Hunt and allegedly flying a car to the Hogwarts
      Express."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's a little callous, don't you think?" Lockhart asked, not
      bothered in the slightest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "Perhaps. Don't get me wrong, I would do
      anything for my friends and I wouldn't just leave them to suffer
      the consequences that I can evade using my fame, but I have to be
      careful. If I don't carefully navigate things then what's to stop
      some gossip-mongering journalist or pissed off bureaucrat from
      doing irreparable harm to my reputation and making sure I'm not in
      a position to be able to help the people I need to? It's called
      being proactive."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, you clearly know what you're doing so I wish you well.
      May both of our fames continue to grow in the years to come,"
      Lockhart told him sincerely and continued on his way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head to clear it. Having a serious discussion
      with Lockhart was not something that he had <em class="calibre8">ever</em> thought
      he'd do in either timeline. Ah, well. He was far certain that he
      was far more than just fashionably late, so maybe he would get some
      points taken off after all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Harry entered the greenhouse, Professor Sprout was just
      about to unpot a Mandrake. When she saw Harry slip in, she stopped
      and took her earmuffs off. "And where were you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was chatting with Professor Lockhart about how famous we both
      are," Harry deadpanned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Sprout narrowed her eyes. "I see. Ten points from
      Gryffindor for your tardiness, Mr. Potter. You can discuss your
      fame on your own time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes!" Harry cheered as he slid into a seat next to Neville.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wouldn't get too excited," Neville told him. "Hermione earned
      fifty while we were waiting for you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry through his head back and wailed, "NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!
      Curses, foiled again. How could you, Hermione? I thought we were
      supposed to be friends!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione just rolled her eyes. "You'll get over it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Face it mate," Ron told him frankly. "Dumbledore likes you
      <strong class="calibre9">way</strong> too much to let you lose the House Cup."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or hates me too much…" Harry muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron ignored him. "Even if you and Snape do manage to end the
      year at a hundred points or so-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And the lowest House Point total ever was 116 and that was
      Gryffindor 1978," Hermione interrupted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry couldn't help a quick smile from flitting across his face.
      That was the Marauder's seventh year and clearly they'd gone out
      with a bang.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Ron nodded. "Even if you managed that, Dumbledore would
      still end up giving Gryffindor 400 points for whatever really
      stupid thing you and anyone stupid enough to go along with you
      without any sort of explanation beyond your 'scar said it was a
      good idea' felt the need to do that will land you in the hospital
      wing for the entire last week of school."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry hung his head, knowing they were right.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right, so if Mr. Potter has been brought up to speed, everyone
      put your earmuffs back on," Professor Sprout ordered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry just shook his head, unable to believe that she honestly
      thought they were actually on topic. Fortunately, he he'd done
      extensive research on Mandrakes over the summer in preparation for
      this year's petrifactions. He didn't think he actually had anything
      to worry about until Halloween, though. After all, if an eleven
      year old could resist Voldemort for two or three months – depending
      on when she'd started using the diary – Pettigrew certainly
      could.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hi, Harry," Colin Creevey chirped excitedly. He looked nervous,
      but determined. "I'm Colin Creevey. I'm in Gryffindor, too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know," Harry said quietly, remembering how pale Colin had
      looked in death, and how small. He had no business sneaking back
      into the castle to fight Voldemort, he was only sixteen. "I saw you
      get sorted."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You did?" Now Colin was really red. "D'you think – would it be
      alright if –can I have a picture?" he asked, raising his camera
      hopefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright," Harry agreed slowly. If it had been anyone else or if
      Colin hadn't given his life long before his time, Harry would have
      refused and used the opportunity to banter with Draco and Lockhart
      but…It was strange. He'd thought it was endearing when Ginny had
      come back to fight despite being too young but that's because he'd
      never thought she'd die. He'd never thought Colin would die,
      either.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, would you?" he asked, taking the camera from Colin
      and handing it to Hermione, figuring she was most likely to know
      how to operate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Standing next to Colin, Harry smiled as the flash went off.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm just saying it's weird," Ron said again as they headed
      towards Defense.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And <em class="calibre8">I'm</em> just saying leave it," Harry retorted
      irritably.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you hate it when people get all crazy and star struck
      around you, so why would you-" Ron tried again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry whirled around. "Because he reminds me of a friend of mine
      who died, okay? Now just drop it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron paled, as he always did at the thought of death. Even at
      twelve, he was still so sheltered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took a deep breath and then headed to his seat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see you've all bought a complete set of my books – well
      done," Lockhart was saying. "I thought we'd start today with a
      little quiz…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Lockhart continued to drone, Hermione turned to Harry and
      glared. "I <em class="calibre8">still</em> can't believe that you didn't buy the
      books. How can you possibly pass this class if you don't get the
      textbooks?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed dramatically. "First of all, they're not textbooks,
      they're storybooks. Secondly, I'm a celebrity. I come with a
      built-in BS ability. Third, Lockhart would never risk the wrath of
      his adoring public by flunking the Boy-Who-Lived-And-Or-Silenced
      and finally, it's all about the final exams anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione still didn't look happy, but Lockhart just placed a
      quiz down in front of her so she was forced to let it go.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's see…" Harry muttered, staring at his own quiz.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">1. What is Gilderoy Lockhart's favorite
      color?</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Famous (formerly, Hot Magenta).</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">2. What is Gilderoy Lockhart's secret
      ambition?</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">To be able to take credit for every dangerous magical creature
      that's defeated anywhere in Europe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">3. What, in your opinion, is Gilderoy Lockhart's
      greatest achievement to date?</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The building and management of his adoring fanbase.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And so on it went until finally Harry got to the last
      question:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">54. When it is Gilderoy Lockhart's birthday, what would
      his ideal gift be?</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The recent defeat of a dangerous magical creature in a
      mysterious manner with no witnesses.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was pretty sure that his answers differed from what was in
      Lockhart's books – not that he had ever read them, of course, but
      still they were bound to contain fewer references to his
      Obliviating habit – but he still felt that they were appropriate
      and somewhat accurate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Glancing through the tests, Harry could tell when Lockhart got
      to his because he just stopped and stared at it for a few minutes
      before shaking his head and moving past it without a word.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Lockhart was done giving the class the answers (and Harry
      and Ron were consequently done playing Wizarding Chess, Neville was
      done watching them, and Hermione was done lecturing them about the
      importance of paying attention while simultaneously taking notes
      like the girl genius she was), he moved on to the next part of the
      lesson: Cornish pixies.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry tuned out Lockhart's attempt to convince the class that
      Cornish pixies were, in fact, highly dangerous creatures because he
      didn't think he could stop himself from saying something that would
      probably land him a detention. Normally, he wouldn't care, but
      there was no way in hell he was going to get stuck answering
      Lockhart's fan mail again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right then," Lockhart declared grandly, throwing open the door
      to the pixie cage. "Let's see what you make of them!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry watched impassively as the released pixies rushed around
      the room destroying everything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Peskipiksi Pesternomi!" Lockhart bellowed after waiting until
      the class was suitably impressed. In did absolutely nothing.
      Perhaps it was a joke spell? Like the one the twins had given Ron
      to change Scabber's color?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have you tried immobilis?" Harry suggested, pointing at one of
      the pixies and while the class turned to watch the pixie fall, he
      discretely pointed his wand at the other pixies and cast several
      silent freezing charms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"H-how did you do that?" Seamus asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rolled his eyes. "With my incredible awesomeness, we've
      been over this, God."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well done, Harry!" Lockhart beamed as he brushed himself off
      and got out from behind his desk. "Fifty points to Gryffindor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sat frozen in horror. "No matter what I do…there's no
      escaping it…just kill me now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: I realize that Crayola didn't rename Hot Magenta 'Famous'
      until 2008, but it was just <em class="calibre8">so</em> perfect.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Review Please!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
