<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Oh God Not Again pt1 - Oh God Not Again! Chapter 18, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Oh God Not Again pt1"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s18" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 18</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: I do not own Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: Someone mentioned that it seemed like everyone who died
      now has knowledge of the future and I want to correct that
      misconception. Only Harry and Sirius have future knowledge because
      it isn't dying that's important, it's going through the Veil.
      Fred's slip of the tongue when he looked into the Mirror of Erised
      means that he has a crush on Angelina, that's all. As for Dobby, if
      he had future knowledge, he'd realize that Harry has the whole
      basilisk situation more-or-less under control and either way has
      already dealt with the Chamber of Secrets once. The fact he resorts
      to…<em class="calibre8">unconventional</em> methods of trying to get Harry from
      Hogwarts is just because Draco stopped him from trying to save
      Harry and Dobby is just being resourceful. Sorry for any
      confusion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry awoke the next morning to the sensation of three stinging
      hexes cast in quick succession. "Ow!" he complained as he reached
      for his wand and disarmed his unknown assailant. "What was that
      for?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry Harry," Percy said apologetically. "But I've heard that
      trying to wake you up conventionally just gets you hexed for your
      trouble."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you thought you'd get in a preemptive strike?" Harry asked,
      annoyed, as he tossed Percy his wand back. "What's so important
      that you're waking me up at this ungodly hour?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's 8:30," Percy informed him, rather pompously. Harry rather
      marveled at the prefect's ability to sound pompous even when doing
      such mundane things as giving the time. Draco had that same
      tendency sometimes. It must be a Pureblood thing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No one should be up before nine on a day they don't have class
      unless it is a matter of life or death," Harry said seriously. "And
      I'm sure Ron and Neville have explained what happens when people do
      wake me up. And considering that those are two of my best friends,
      imagine how badly I'd hex anybody else…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Percy gulped. "Indeed. Well, as it turns out, this is an
      emergency. My sister was petrified last night."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginny?" Harry repeated disbelievingly. Talk about ironic. She
      was about the last person Harry would have every expected to get
      petrified – aside from himself, of course. Clearly Riddle was
      getting fed up with the lack of results his basilisk was getting
      due to Harry's ready supply of Mandrake Potion and had decided it
      was open season instead of bothering with verifying someone's blood
      status. Not like Pettigrew would even have a way of finding that
      out, unlike Ginny. "What was she even doing out? There's no way a
      basilisk could fit in the Gryffindor Common Room, and chances are
      if it did, someone else would have noticed it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, well," Percy continued, looking a bit awkward. "She
      <strong class="calibre9">wasn't</strong> in the Common Room…and neither was the boy
      they found her with."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry choked. "Boy? She's bloody eleven!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Percy peered curiously at him. "Most people your age wouldn't
      reach that conclusion quite so quickly, if at all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "Since when have I ever been 'most people'? So
      who was with her? And are they both alright?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Neville Longbottom," Percy replied promptly. "I believe he is a
      friend of yours. Do you have any idea what Ginny and Neville were
      doing out after curfew together? They weren't very far away from
      the Fat Lady and Peeves was found petrified nearby, so they
      probably saw the basilisk through him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wow," Harry said, somewhat shakily. "That was lucky." To think
      that they hadn't even thought to bring a mirror! If Peeves hadn't
      happened to be there…that never would have happened the last time.
      Perhaps it was because Harry's timely interventions meant that no
      one was petrified for long that no one was taking the threat
      seriously this time? That could be a problem. He'd have to give
      Gryffindor a lecture about that later and hoped they spread the
      word.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed," Percy nodded. "If something had happened to Ginny…" he
      shook his head, leaving the thought unfinished. "Follow me."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"You killed my cat!" Filch accused the moment the two stepped
      into the Hospital Wing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked. "Unless I'm very much mistaken – which is a very
      real possibility given my almost-constant sense of déjà vu – didn't
      we already have this conversation?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You did," Dumbledore said gravely. "But alas, Mrs. Norris was
      attacked again last night."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's, what, four people?" Harry asked. At Dumbledore's nod,
      he continued, "That's quite a lot for one attack. Oh, here," he
      handed Madame Pomfrey three vials of Mandrake Potion. "Sorry I
      don't have one for Mrs. Norris, but I had only heard about Neville,
      Ginny, and Peeves."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"SHE DOESN'T NEED YOUR BLOODY POTION, SHE'S DEAD!" Filch
      roared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Harry said quietly, taken aback. He hadn't expected that.
      His friends and fellow students, though tending to get more
      careless as time went by, at least had the option of carrying
      around a mirror. Mrs. Norris not only hadn't had a chance in that
      regard, but apparently hadn't been standing behind Peeves at the
      time of the basilisk's appearance. He felt horrible for Filch.
      Granted, the man was unpleasant in the extreme and Harry had often
      fantasized about killing that accursed cat, but he would never have
      actually done it. She was all Filch had, really, and being the
      Squib caretaker in a school full of wizarding children who hated
      him…Harry resolved to write to Mrs. Figg the minute this was over.
      He had an idea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry," Harry said lamely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No you're not," Filch said bitterly. "You hated her the way
      everyone always hated her. She wouldn't have given you any trouble
      if you'd just follow the rules. If those two," he jerked his head
      towards Ginny and Neville, "had just stayed in their Common Room
      where they belonged, this never would have happened. It never
      <strong class="calibre9">should</strong> have happened. " With that, Filch stormed
      out of the Hospital Wing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stood there awkwardly until he heard Ginny start to cough.
      "Are you okay?" he asked, rushing to her side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, I-what happened?" she asked slowly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You were attacked by the basilisk last night. It killed Mrs.
      Norris and petrified you, Neville, and Peeves," Harry
      explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I never thought I'd say it," Neville spoke up, also awake now,
      "but we really owe him one. Let's also never mention this to him
      lest he tries to enlist our help in some inane prank that will earn
      us detentions every day for a month."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or cost us hundreds of House Points," Ginny agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"On the other hand," Harry said quickly. "You <em class="calibre8">do</em> owe
      him your lives."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you're that desperate to lose hundreds of House Points, why
      don't YOU work with Peeves to pay him back for saving us?" Neville
      shot back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore looked outright shocked at the thought of anyone
      actively seeking to lose points. After mulling it over for a
      moment, he decided that Neville must be kidding and still coping
      with his recent traumatic experience. "What were you and Miss
      Weasley doing outside of your Common Room after curfew, Mr.
      Longbottom?" he asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well…" Neville began, sounding a bit embarrassed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ron was giving us a hard time because he wanted Neville to go
      over by him and Hermione but he didn't want me there and when
      Neville said he'd rather keep talking to me, Ron blew up and
      started accusing me of trying to steal all of his friends," Ginny
      said bluntly. "So we left. We didn't go far and we didn't think
      anything would happen-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But it did, Miss Weasley," Dumbledore said gently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know," she said softly. "I'm sorry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I hope you learn from this that the curfew was put in place to
      protect you, especially now that there is a basilisk on the loose.
      Still, that's twenty points from Gryffindor," Dumbledore informed
      them gravely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Given the serious nature of the discussion, Harry held himself
      back from cheering.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">A couple weeks later, Harry himself had almost settled into the
      strange pattern of reflection-checking, random petrifactions, and
      almost instant revivals. Almost, but not quite, because unlike
      everyone else he had the memory of what had happened the last time
      the basilisk was unleashed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Currently, he was standing in the Great Hall with Ron, Hermione,
      and Neville waiting for the first (and only, to Harry's
      recollection) meeting of the Dueling Club to begin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm just saying, I don't see how nobody's heard about any of
      this," Hermione was saying. "I mean, for God's sake, the attacks
      started a month and a half ago!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who would write home about this?" Ron asked, looking at her as
      if she were mental. "Our parents would pull us out of school faster
      than you can say 'Harry has an unlimited supply of Mandrake Potion
      and we all check around every corner with mirrors so we're really
      not in much danger.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ron, you could do quite a bit by the time you say all of that,"
      Neville said, amused. "Isn't the normal expression 'Faster than you
      can say Quidditch'?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, but I figured my way is more appropriate to the
      situation," Ron replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do <em class="calibre8">not</em> have an unlimited supply," Harry corrected
      him. "In fact, I really need to order some more. I'm just glad
      everyone <span>does</span> keep using mirrors or else things could
      start to get serious."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Could start?" Hermione repeated incredulously. "Harry, there's
      one of the most poisonous creatures known to man travelling freely
      around the school and attacking students; it's already serious. And
      I know that no one wants to worry their parents and we do seem to
      be suffering no permanent damage – except Mrs. Norris, of course –
      but why hasn't there been any mention of this in any alternative
      forums? The <em class="calibre8">Daily Prophet</em> at least."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've been bribing them," Harry said simply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You've been WHAT?" Hermione shrieked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Keep it down," Harry said irritably. "This isn't exactly public
      knowledge."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But Harry, you can't just-" Hermione began helplessly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Actually, I can, and let me just say that it really says
      something about a society if the only 'respectable' newspaper is
      not only owned by the government but is willing to be bribed by a
      twelve-year-old. And it's not like I'm doing this just for kicks,
      although I am perhaps enjoying making them write something that I
      approve of for once."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What justification could you possibly have?" Hermione
      demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If certain factions hear word that Dumbledore can't keep us
      safe from the basilisk that is running wild through our school,
      they will remove him and appoint a Ministry stooge as Headmaster
      instead. That not only won't help, it will probably make the
      situation ten times worse. I don't want this to get any more
      complicated than it already is, and turning this into a political
      game will do that," Harry told her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey is that Lockhart?" Ron asked. "With <em class="calibre8">Snape</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are either of them qualified to teach Dueling?" Hermione asked
      with pursed lips.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe not Lockhart," Harry conceded. "But Snape knows a ton
      about Dark Arts and I gather he's a rather competent duelist."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps," Hermione allowed. "But I still think it should be
      Flitwick; he was a Dueling Champion when he was younger, you
      know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry watched as Lockhart and Snape's demonstration went almost
      exactly the way it had before – with Snape blasting Lockhart into a
      wall. Still, Harry had coached Lockhart a bit on what to do in case
      he was ever overpowered and didn't want to admit it and so instead
      of protesting that he knew Snape was going to do it all along and
      sounding entirely unconvincing, Lockhart went the more practical
      route of smiling and thanking Snape for the fine example and
      warning the students not to put so much power into their spells. In
      fact, Lockhart almost made it wound like it was Snape's mistake
      that had him flying into the wall, not Lockhart's. Snape,
      predictably, looked murderous and his hand twitched for his wand so
      Lockhart hastily split the observers into pairs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape walked by and paired Harry and Neville together, Hermione
      with Millicent Bulstrode, and Ron with Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wands at the ready!" Lockhart shouted. "When I count to-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart didn't get any further as Ron and Draco had begun
      hexing each other the minute Snape's back was turned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Looking rather put out, Snape eventually separated them and
      called them up to the stage so they could try again without
      endangering everyone around them. Lockhart had actually tried to
      use Harry and Neville, but Snape had pointed out that Harry never
      took anything seriously unless it involved extreme emotional trauma
      on the part of one of his friends or if someone died and Lockhart
      was forced to concede the point.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape walked over to Draco and Lockhart went over by Ron. Harry
      was too far away to hear what they were saying, but from the smirk
      on Draco's face and the alarmed look on Ron's once Lockhart dropped
      his wand, he had a fairly good idea of what was going to happen
      next. The only question was what to do about it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Three – two – one – go!" Lockhart shouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Serpensortia!</em>" Malfoy yelled the second Lockhart said
      'go', not giving Ron any chance to react.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry watched dispassionately as a large, black snake burst
      forth from Draco's wand. Was embarrassing Ron really worth the
      trouble that both Draco and Snape could get in for setting a
      potentially poisonous snake (Harry really wasn't sure if it was but
      hoped that it wasn't because he just couldn't believe that Snape
      would be so irresponsible) on a bunch on schoolchildren? Although
      to be fair, it was quite impressive that Draco managed to pull off
      a snake conjuring at the tender age of twelve; Harry didn't think
      he learned how to do that until sometime either fifth or sixth
      year. Then again, he hadn't grown up knowing he was a wizard and
      playing with magic whenever his (dead) parents weren't looking,
      either.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry slowly made his way up to the stage as his peers stood
      transfixed by the large serpent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't move, Weasley," Snape said lazily, twirling his wand
      between his fingers. "I'll get rid of it…" He seemed to be in no
      hurry, though, so that snake had <em class="calibre8">better</em> be harmless. Harry
      thought he heard somewhere that the larger snakes were often
      non-toxic but could crush people, so setting that snake on Ron was
      still horribly unprofessional and – if the look on his friend's
      face was any indication – incredibly traumatizing. Ron was
      literally shaking. At least it wasn't spiders.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Allow me!" shouted Lockhart, unable to resist the opportunity
      to show off. He waved his wand with a flourish and there was a loud
      bang that sent the snake flying into the air. When it landed, it
      was understandably enraged and heading straight for Justin
      Finch-Fletchley. Again. Was he just snake bait or something?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry groaned. He had a plan for this, but he wasn't quite sure
      that it would work considering everyone was well aware that a giant
      snake was running around the castle. "<em class="calibre8">Look, the guy who
      attacked you didn't mean to, he's just one of the worst wizards
      I've ever met. I know you're mad and probably confused as hell and
      certainly didn't ask for this, but if you bite anyone, you'll only
      get yourself killed</em>," Harry told the snake in Parseltongue. He
      climbed onto the stage and beckoned the snake towards him.
      "<em class="calibre8">Just calm down and come with me. If you just slowly come to
      me, they won't hurt you. I'm the only one who can understand you
      here and if you don't listen to me, who knows what they'll
      do?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The snake looked at him for a long moment and then slowly began
      making its way in Harry's general direction. Draco, Harry noticed
      with almost malicious glee, visibly paled and gulped as the snake
      slithered past him. Served him right.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For those of you who are undoubtedly concocting fantastic
      scenarios in your head about how I'm the Heir of Slytherin after
      all because I can speak Parseltongue, I want you to look very
      closely at my hands. See how I'm gesturing for the snake to stay on
      the stage with me where you won't be in any danger? See how I'm
      totally not endangering anyone or egging the snake on? And yes, I'm
      talking to you Justin and Ernie. You guys jump to conclusions more
      rapidly than Ron and Hermione." Harry shook his head
      despairingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ernie bristled slightly at the implied insult. Clearly he had
      also noticed Ron and Hermione's proclivity for jumping to
      conclusions. Actually, it was more like skydiving to conclusions.
      "Then what <strong class="calibre9">were</strong> you saying to it?" Ernie
      challenged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry almost rolled his eyes. Did Ernie honestly think Harry
      would be telling the snake to do something nefarious and then
      <span>confess</span> it? Maybe he would have last time, but Harry
      had been spending far too much time with Slytherins recently to do
      something quite so inane. "It's basically been variations of 'Come
      over by me so people don't kill you,'" he said finally.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape was the first to recover from the shockwaves Harry's
      announcement of sorts that he was a Parselmouth had sent through
      the room and quickly vanished the snake.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, Professor," Harry said brightly. "I'm glad you saw
      fit to clean up the mess you caused by telling Draco to cast that
      spell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ten points from Gryffindor for your cheek, Potter," Snape
      snapped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grinned. He had a vague suspicion that Snape knew how much
      he enjoyed losing points but helped him anyway in the vain hope
      that Dumbledore would actually let someone other than Harry win the
      House Cup.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In case anyone's interested, now that my Parselmouth abilities
      is public knowledge, I'm here to announce that I'm willing to
      translate a conversation you want to have with a snake – any snake,
      I don't care, just bring it to me – for however long you want at
      two sickles per five minutes." Harry could swear that he heard
      Hermione groaning somewhere in the audience. "I also want to
      reiterate again that I am NOT the Heir of Slytherin and if I were
      then I definitely wouldn't be eating the cost of the Mandrake
      Potions and start charging for them. But no, instead I am giving
      them out for free to anyone who needs them with no benefit for
      myself." Harry paused. "Well, technically I'm using them as a tax
      deductible, but other than that, it's completely selfless.
      Remember, anytime you want to talk to a serpent, let me know. Now,
      if that's all, it's been a great Dueling Meeting, but now I'm off
      to bed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With that, Harry walked off the stage and out of the Great Hall,
      leaving a largely-stunned audience behind him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Review Please!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
