<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Oh God Not Again pt1 - Oh God Not Again! Chapter 19, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Oh God Not Again pt1"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s19" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 19</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Note: Snape is <em class="calibre8">fully</em> aware of Harry's distaste for
      gaining points, but since he desperately wants Slytherin to win the
      House Cup, he is willing to play along since he knows it would take
      a bloody miracle for Dumbledore not to hand Harry the Cup on a
      silver platter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: I do not own Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, I'm glad I caught you," Percy said eagerly, springing up
      as Harry descended the dformitory staircase first thing the next
      morning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Given you appeared to be waiting for me, that's not really all
      that surprising," Harry said yawning. "Still, at least you didn't
      try waking me up this time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, well…I wanted to ask you what the hell you thought you
      were doing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Going down to breakfast?" Harry suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not right now," Percy said impatiently. "Last night."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Weren't you there?" Harry asked innocently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I was…busy…" Percy said, looking a little embarrassed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"With Penelope?" Harry smirked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is none of your concern, Harry," Percy said stiffly, his
      ears reddening.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm just teasing, Percy; I'm glad you have a girlfriend," Harry
      said sincerely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," Percy gave Harry a small smile. "I'm going to be
      honest with you: You are a huge disruptive influence and I'm fairly
      certain that I should at the very least dislike you. For some
      reason, I don't. Mum seems determined to make you a part of our
      family, as do Ron and the twins. You yourself don't seem all that
      opposed to the idea. As such, it always unnerves me when you do
      things like this and either put yourself in danger from vigilantes
      who want to 'stop you' because they think you're the Heir of
      Slytherin now or just outright hate you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I appreciate that Percy," Harry told him. "I'm not trying to
      worry anyone; I just think I know what I'm doing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You think?" Percy repeated faintly. "You THINK? Now I'm even
      <em class="calibre8">more</em> worried..."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're a Parselmouth!" Hermione exclaimed as Ron and Neville
      shoved Harry into an empty classroom. Harry really didn't' want to
      have this conversation, now or ever, but he was thankful his
      friends at least had the sense to make sure he wasn't
      overheard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So I announced last night," Harry said neutrally.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why didn't you tell us?" Ron demanded, upset. He seemed to be
      even more worked up than he was last time, although it had been
      awhile so Harry wasn't positive. Perhaps it was because last time
      even though Harry's unexpected ability was the same, this time
      Harry had known about it, what it was called, and exactly what
      being a Parselmouth implied so it was more like he had been
      deliberately keeping this from them? That was all true, but Harry
      didn't think Ron would appreciate if Harry told him that he didn't
      feel like dealing with the hassle of telling him and having to
      worry about Ron keeping something this big under wraps. Ron would
      never purposely expose his secret, but he was also about as subtle
      as Voldemort, if less violent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Everyone always freaks out when they hear about it," Harry
      explained. "And really, how often does the subject of talking to
      snakes come up in daily conversation?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You'd think it would be something you might want to mention
      when there has been a basilisk going around petrifying people for
      the last few weeks," Neville sounded a little annoyed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know, I know," Harry agreed wearily. "But it really isn't
      that big of a deal. I haven't been anywhere near the basilisk and
      aside from occasionally hearing it moaning about how it wants to
      kill people as it rushes past me, I haven't seen any indication of
      her presence."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Her?" Ron repeated. As Harry opened his mouth to explain, he
      shook his head. "It doesn't matter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't you think that the constant petrifactions might count as
      a sign of the basilisk's presence?" Neville asked rhetorically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is a huge deal!" Hermione insisted heatedly. "Being a
      Parselmouth is what Salazar Slytherin was most famous for-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that and his being a Pureblood fanatic," Neville muttered
      to Ron, who grinned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now the whole school is going to think you're his ancestor!"
      Ron cried.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stared at him. "Why would they go and think a silly thing
      like that for?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because it won't occur to them that it's possible to be a
      Parselmouth and not related to him as Parselmouths are so rare?"
      Neville put forth tentatively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I bet they're not nearly as rare as everyone makes them out to
      be and anyone who doesn't want to get saddled with the label of
      'Dark Wizard in Training' – which, true or not, would definitely be
      a bit of a setback – would make sure to keep that ability hidden,"
      Harry disagreed. "And that wasn't what I meant anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What did you mean?" Neville asked, confused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I meant that unless they're all a bunch of morons-" Harry
      began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which you have a tendency to think anyway," Hermione cut him
      off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True, but unless they are even more hopeless than I had
      originally thought, they would not think that I am his ancestor,
      but rather his descendent," Harry finished. "Unless they subscribe
      to some crazy time-travelling theory where I am my own
      great-ancestor or something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Kind of like the conspiracy theories in the Quibbler that you
      and Luna believe?" Hermione asked innocently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course not, Hermione," Harry scoffed. "Everyone knows you
      can't be your own ancestor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?" Hermione asked, wondering how that was any more
      farfetched than some of the other things she'd heard Harry, Luna,
      and occasionally Ron (curse him for winning that lifetime
      subscription) debating. "How so?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's all about genes, Hermione," Harry began patiently. "I
      don't expect you to know much about them, but you know what DNA is,
      right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione nodded even as Ron and Neville started to look
      lost.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, if you have a child that child will have half of your
      genes and by the same principle if you have any grandchildren they
      will have roughly a quarter of your genes," Harry continued. "The
      likelihood of you contributing exactly the right half of your genes
      in order to match with the genes your partner is contributing is so
      low that the odds aren't even worth calculating. That makes it
      virtually impossible for you to be your own child or grandchild,
      although the probability does go up slightly after each generation.
      In any event, it would be a case of incest and your family would be
      stuck in constant cycle if you went back in time and lived the rest
      of your life in the past. In my case, I also have the benefit of
      knowing that Salazar Slytherin is an established person so even if
      no such person were to exist, I wouldn't choose that as a
      pseudonym. In fact, seeing as how it was over a thousand years ago,
      I probably wouldn't bother with a pseudonym at all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm…not quite sure I follow all of that," Hermione admitted.
      The girl was brilliant, but she was also only twelve.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't have to," Harry assured her. "Just know that I'm
      right."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's a dangerous precedent to set," Hermione told him
      seriously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then don't have this be precedent; just this once," Harry
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's how all these things start," Hermione countered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you're not his <em class="calibre8">descendent</em>," Neville put extra
      emphasis on the disputed word so as not to have to endure any more
      of Harry's attempts to clarify, "then how can you speak
      Parseltongue? Or do you not know?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I inherited it from Voldemort and he's a descendent of
      Slytherin," Harry said casually.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"YOU'RE DESCENDED FROM YOU-KNOW-WHO?" Ron shouted, shocked and
      horrified.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course not," Harry said, looking sick. "Can you imagine the
      likes of him reproducing? That's the stuff of nightmares, right
      there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you <span>just said</span>-" Neville protested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, so now I can't inherit something from someone I'm not
      related to?" Harry demanded indignantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Generally no," Hermione told him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Except if you're talking about Gringotts, but even then most
      people are related to each other anyway. As Harry continues to
      point out," Ron said, a little bitterly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Only when Draco's around," Harry said defensively. "And
      besides, if you're going to be all nit-picky, then I'm not
      technically a Parselmouth."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can talk to snakes. That makes you a Parselmouth," Neville
      said bluntly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh anyone can talk to snakes," Harry said dismissively. "It's
      getting them to answer back that's the trick. But anyway, my scar –
      which I got from that Killing Curse Voldemort shot at me – is a
      Parselmouth. If I were to ever lose it, I would be completely
      unable to interact with British-Serpents."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How could you possibly know that?" Hermione demanded. "Better
      questions: How could you <em class="calibre8">lose</em> a scar?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Easy. Kill Voldemort," Harry said shortly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're not making any sense. Again," Ron added as an
      afterthought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whatever," Harry said, exiting the classroom and being almost
      immediately set upon by a small crowd of over-eager Slytherins, all
      of them holding a snake. "You guys go on without me; I might be
      awhile."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oi! Harry!" Fred called out. "We wanted-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To let you know-" George continued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How impressed we were-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"With your little stunt at the-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dueling Club Meeting-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And we hope-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That you continue to-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Always be around-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To inspire ickle Ronniekins-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To follow in your-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And thus our footsteps-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As a first-class prankster-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Master Manipulator-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And brilliant businessman."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stared at the Weasley Twins who smiled back at him
      innocently. He wasn't fooled for a second. "One of these days
      you've got to teach me that spell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What spell?" they chorused simultaneously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh come on, I'll do anything!" Harry offered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry Harry-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We'd love to help you-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We really would-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But we have no idea-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What you are talking-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"About or what-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're smoking but-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're starting to think-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We'd like to try some."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll give you a start-up loan on your joke shop," Harry
      promised.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred and George exchanged glances.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do that and we'll talk."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Justin!" Ernie hissed urgently. "What are you doing here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Justin, who had been working on a Herbology project with Harry,
      looked apologetically at him before going over to where Ernie was
      trying and failing miserably to look inconspicuous behind a
      bookshelf. Harry himself waved merrily to Susan Bones and Hannah
      Abbot, who looked vaguely uncomfortable as they waved back and then
      returned to pretending not to listen to what Ernie and Justin were
      discussing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm studying," Justin said simply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"With Harry Potter!" Ernie was appalled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really? I hadn't noticed. I probably should have guessed when
      he kept chatting about his scar and translated three separate
      conversations for a Slytherin and two Ravenclaws," Justin said
      sarcastically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know what I mean," Ernie said impatiently. "I told you to
      hide in the Common Room."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you did," Justin acknowledged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then why aren't you?" Ernie demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because I had a project to do," Justin replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You could have done it in the Common Room," Ernie said
      sternly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was a partner project and Harry's not in Hufflepuff," Justin
      pointed out. "Besides, letting him into the Common Room kind of
      defeats the purpose of hiding up there, doesn't it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why are you working with Potter, anyway?" Ernie had taken to
      calling Harry by his surname once he decided that Harry was
      secretly evil after all. Well, not <strong class="calibre9">secretly</strong> per
      se, but rather blatantly evil. In fact, Harry was delighted that
      everyone who thought he was the Heir was referring to him as Potter
      and everyone else called him Harry – at his insistence as he had
      some bad memories of people who hated him calling him 'Potter'
      before making his life hell – because that way it was very easy to
      differentiate the mindless sheep who believed him from the mindless
      sheep who were ruled by fear. He supposed he really shouldn't think
      of the roughly three-fourths of the school who stood by him as
      mindless sheep, but he knew from past experience that they were
      only responding to his explanations and assistance in reviving the
      basilisk victims.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not like we got to choose our partners," Justin said,
      rolling his eyes. "You know that; you're paired up with Lavender
      Brown."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You should have explained the situation to Professor Sprout-"
      Ernie began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What situation?" Justin interrupted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The situation of Potter being the Heir of Slytherin and
      attacking people for the hell of it and curing them for the
      publicity and to throw people off his track," Ernie replied
      matter-of-factly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Even if you were right, he has to work with someone and unless
      you think that a half-blood like him with a Muggle-born best friend
      is a Pureblood Fanatic, everyone is at risk," Justin said
      reasonably.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd still rather my best friend didn't insist on endangering
      himself trying to be all noble and <strong class="calibre9">Gryffindor</strong>,"
      Ernie muttered sourly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was uncalled for," Justin said, shuddering at the
      comparison.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know," Ernie said, looking sheepish. "I'm sorry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry's always been so nice though," Hannah said uncertainly,
      giving up all pretense of ignoring the two boys. "And he made
      You-Know-Who disappear. He can't be all bad, can he?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No one knows how he survived that attack by You-Know-Who,"
      Ernie said, lowering his voice dramatically. "You-Know-Who cast a
      Killing Curse at him. No one survives a Killing Curse, let alone a
      baby. Only a really powerful Dark Wizard could have possibly lived
      to tell the tale."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm pretty sure Harry made some big announcement sometime last
      year about surviving because him mother sacrificed herself for
      him," Susan pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Had he done that? Harry really didn't remember. Still, if he had
      then that could only work in his favor in swaying more sheep.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh come on, he was a baby, what does he know about it?" Ernie
      scoffed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I completely agree, "Susan said pointedly. "He was only a baby.
      How could he POSSIBLY be so evil that You-Know-Who himself had to
      come straight over and kill him? How would he even know that Harry
      was a devil-child at that age?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well…" Ernie trailed off, realizing that she had a valid point.
      "I still don't buy the whole Mother-Sacrificing theory. I mean, is
      Lily Potter really the only person to have ever given their lives
      for someone ever? She can't be. How in the world is Potter the only
      one to survive?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe he's the Chosen One," Justin snarked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nearly choked. That wasn't too far off, actually, although
      hopefully that could be kept quiet for a few more years.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But-" Ernie tried again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just give it up Ernie," Susan advised.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine. Don't come crying to me when Potter petrifies you all,"
      Ernie sniffed and began to storm away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If anything, he'd come after you for smearing his name," Susan
      called after him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ernie's shoulders stiffened and he started walking faster.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If Harry did that, wouldn't everyone be suspicious of him
      again?" Hannah asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Justin shrugged. "Probably. On the other hand, there's no need
      to tell Ernie that. And maybe now I can get back to my
      homework…"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Potter," McGonagall's voice rang out through the suddenly
      silent library several hours later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes?" Harry asked politely. "Has someone else been
      petrified?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed. Ernie MacMillan has been found right outside the
      Hufflepuff Common Room," McGonagall told him gravely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see, I…" Harry trailed off as something occurred to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Potter?" McGonagall prompted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I HAVE AN ALIBI!" Harry cheered, ignoring the Death Glare Madam
      Pince sent his way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pardon?" McGonagall asked, not understanding.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ever since that whole stunt I pulled at the Dueling Club, some
      people – Ernie being one of the most vocal – have been accusing me
      of attacking everyone. I never seem to have an alibi, but this time
      I was in here studying the whole time and have, like, thirty
      witnesses," Harry continued excitedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Be that as it may," McGonagall said primly. "A student was
      still petrified."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, he'll be fine," Harry said dismissively as he followed the
      Transfiguration Professor up to the Hospital Wing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That may be true but I would like to remind you that there is
      still a murderous creature on the loose and it would not behoove
      you to be so glib," McGonagall said sternly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know, I know…" Harry said. He glanced down at Ernie. "Hey! I
      sold him that mirror! And he still blames me! That little…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry," Dumbledore interrupted him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello Professor," Harry said warmly. "What are you doing
      here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm always concerned when there is a basilisk attacking my
      students," Dumbledore explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That sounds like a good policy," Harry nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have been almost extraordinarily helpful during this crisis
      and I suspect that you are somehow involved in the iron curtain of
      secrecy protecting Hogwarts's problems from the wizarding world at
      large," Dumbledore said pleasantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do what I can," Harry said, his voice non-committal.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let me begin by saying that I know that you have nothing to do
      with these attacks. However, I am quite curious: how do you know so
      much about the attacks?" Dumbledore's eyes bore into him and Harry
      was suddenly quite grateful Hermione had bullied him into mastering
      Occlumency when they were nineteen. Well, she and all of his other
      friends were twenty, but he had a late birthday.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've come back from the future," Harry deadpanned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed," Dumbledore said, skeptical but intrigued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yes," Harry nodded. "Of course, when I'm from Ginny Weasley
      had the Diary and was attacking only Muggleborns, Sirius Black was
      completely innocent of the crimes he was sent to Azkaban for –
      without a trial – and escaped next year, Draco Malfoy is the Master
      of the Elder Wand, and Snape helps euthanize you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed," Dumbledore said again, this time blatant disbelief
      evident in his voice. "How did you come back, if you don't mind me
      asking?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Drapery accident," Harry said shortly. "It was very
      traumatic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore sighed heavily. "I wish you would be honest with me,
      Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who says I'm not being honest?" Harry asked rhetorically. "But
      you can be assured that anything I'm not telling you is either for
      a very good reason, because I don't think it's relevant, or just
      because I don't want to deal with the consequences."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's rather discouraging, Harry," Dumbledore told him
      frankly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know what else to tell you," Harry said shrugging.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How about the truth?" Dumbledore suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The truth," Harry sighed, mimicking Dumbledore's response to
      Harry's plea for the truth in his first first year. "It is a
      beautiful and terrible thing, and should therefore be treated with
      great caution."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is most unhelpful and I suspect deliberately cryptic,"
      Dumbledore told him, sounding a little disappointed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, if it is it's probably because I got that from a reticent
      and secretive to a fault old man," Harry said, grinning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you should decide in the future to confide in me, my office
      is always open," Dumbledore told him sincerely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks Professor," Harry said, touched. "I appreciate
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: If you, like several others, are thinking of leaving a
      review for the sole purpose of telling me I used 'ancestor' instead
      of 'descendant' then kindly refrain. That was <em class="calibre8">entirely
      intentional</em> as in the actual books Dumbledore calls Voldemort
      Slytherin's sole remaining ancestor. Also, if you noticed Harry
      corrected Ron and said it was descendant.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Review Please!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
