<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Oh God Not Again pt1 - Oh God Not Again! Chapter 2, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Oh God Not Again pt1"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 2</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: I do not own Harry Potter. In case anyone was living
      under a rock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: I'm a bit concerned that I made Fred and George seem too
      gullible here, but I think they'd view Harry as an 'ickle firstie'
      who couldn't possibly be trying to pull one over on them. Not to
      mention its some juicy gossip.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Other Note: And has anyone ever wondered why exactly the
      Weasley's don't talk to their accountant relative?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, there you are, boy," Uncle Vernon said, a nasty grin on
      his face. "Platform nine-platform ten. Your platform should be
      somewhere in the middle, but they don't seem to have built it yet,
      do they?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rolled his eyes. "You're some kind of moron, you know
      that? And no, I wouldn't recommend trying anything in front of all
      these witnesses," Harry said casually as he watched his Uncle's
      face begin to purple. He figured he was reasonably safe saying
      anything he wanted to him seeing as how he wouldn't see him for
      nine whole months. "Of course they don't have the platform be
      obvious; it's a train for wizard children with wizard items that
      would attract far too much attention."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then where is it, boy?" Vernon spat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You just walk right through the portal. I know it
      <em class="calibre8">looks</em> like a brick wall, but I assure you it's not. How is
      that possible, you ask? MAGIC. In fact, you can come with me, if
      you like, and see it for yourself," Harry suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Uncle Vernon looked like he was about to lunge at Harry, but
      Harry just nodded towards the local constable who was standing not
      twenty feet away and Uncle Vernon reluctantly backed down. "You'll
      pay for that, boy," he whispered menacingly and then walked back to
      his car. As they drove away, Harry saw Dudley and Aunt Petunia
      laughing; clearly his Uncle had lied about the encounter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now, Harry was fully aware of the fact that antagonizing his
      Uncle was probably not the best plan, but he had stood up to people
      a hundred times more intimidating than the likes of Vernon Dursely
      and so he wasn't about to just cower as he would have when he was
      really eleven. Harry could basically write off any chance off
      improving relations with his Uncle, but the rest of his family were
      a different story.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He knew that his Aunt Petunia had once loved her sister and was
      more scared of what Harry's presence would mean in terms of her
      family's safety and jealous that Lily had always been the favorite.
      More than fifteen years of resentment would be hard to overcome,
      but Harry had always hated summer and the fact that he never had
      anything to do, so he may as well try that. Dudley was another
      avenue that Harry could pursue. Granted at this point in time he
      was little more than a spoiled bully, but he did eventually come to
      accept Harry after the Dementor incident. He wasn't quite sure how
      he could speed up a reconciliation with Dudley, but it might be
      worth looking into. It would definitely make life at Privet Drive
      more peaceful, that was for sure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"-packed with Muggles, of course-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked up abruptly as he heard Mrs. Weasley's voice. He
      quickly hurried after them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, what's the platform number?" Molly asked. Harry wondered
      briefly how in the world she managed to forget the platform number
      since she'd been doing this for God knows how many years.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nine and three-quarters!" Ginny piped up. "Mum, can't I go…"
      Harry couldn't help but grin. While they were both currently way
      too young for him to be having any romantic thoughts about her, she
      was still a cute kid.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When all the Hogwarts-bound Weasley's save Ron had gone through,
      Harry approached them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excuse me," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello, dear. First time at Hogwarts? Ron's new, too," Molly
      said kindly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Harry nodded before turning to Ron. "Hi, my name's Harry
      Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As he anticipated, the reaction was immediate. Ron's eyes
      immediately flew to his forehead and Ginny started squealing. Well,
      at least this way she wouldn't complain about not seeing him,
      though watching the love of his life act like a fangirl was
      somewhat irritating.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you really?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you really Ron?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course I am," Ron said, looking confused. "Why wouldn't I
      be?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I could say the same to you," Harry replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But…but I can't believe that you'd be Harry Potter!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "Well, I suppose someone has to be, right?" he
      said, casually brushing his hair out of his eyes and revealing the
      most famous scar in the history of magic. "So anyway, I was
      wondering if you could help me find the platform?" he asked,
      turning back to Mrs. Weasley.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mrs. Weasley, whose eyes had filled with tears upon finding out
      who Harry was (probably because such a polite boy had had such a
      tragic life and at such a young age, too), nodded. "Of course,
      dear. All you have to do is walk straight at the barrier between
      platforms nine and ten. Don't stop and don't be scared you'll crash
      into it, that's very important. Best do it at a bit of a run if
      you're nervous. Go on, go now before Ron."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry thanked her for her help and walked through the platform.
      Harry looked around, smiling a little at the sight of everyone so
      much younger than the last time he saw them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Suddenly, one of the Weasley twins approached him. "Want a
      hand?" he asked. Unfortunately, Harry had no idea which one it was,
      as he had never been able to tell them apart to begin with and
      George had lost his ear the summer after his sixth year and then
      Fred had died so he never really got an opportunity, even after he
      had married into the family.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks," Harry replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oy, Fred! C'mere and help!" Okay, now Harry was reasonably sure
      that Fred was the one who had approached him. After all, the twins
      never actually referred to themselves by their proper names, as
      apparently that was for 'lesser pranksters.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once the twins helped him, he again brushed his hair out of his
      eyes, this time more because the effort of lifting his school
      trunks (he should probably put a charm on it to lighten it) than
      because he had any great need to reveal himself to people who would
      hear him announced to everybody at his sorting soon enough. It was
      strange, though, to see George with two ears again. To see Fred
      ALIVE again. His heart constricted briefly and he tried to imagine
      how it'd be to see some of the other people he'd lost. Especially
      Sirius, who was still in Azkaban.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's that?" George asked. Now that Harry had a good idea as
      to which one had first approached him, he knew that he'd be able to
      tell them apart—at least until they left his line of sight.
      Apparently Bill was the only one who had been consistently able to
      tell them apart, hence he was their favorite sibling. Well, Bill
      and Percy, but the latter was far too uptight to ever be idolized
      by the Weasley twins.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blimey," said Fred. "Are you-?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He is," George confirmed. Harry couldn't help but notice how
      surreal it was that the Weasley twins were, for once, NOT finishing
      each other's sentences. Hm. No matter how well they knew each
      other, that must be pretty difficult. Were they Legilimens? "Aren't
      you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I'm seriously confused, if that's what you mean," Harry
      told them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry Potter," chorused the twins.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope," Harry said cheerfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're not?" Fred asked, bemused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I'm not. Have you ever met him?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, no, but-" George began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then what makes you think I'm him?" Harry demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, you've got a scar," Fred offered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So does Dumbledore, are you going to go accusing him of being
      Potter next?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course not!" George said, looking thoughtful. "Filch, on the
      other hand…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So who are you then, if you're not Harry Potter?" Fred asked
      skeptically. "And why do you have a lightning bolt scar on your
      forehead?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, after that nasty little incident with the Dark Lord, my
      mother decided that lightning bolt scars were 'in' and shot a
      cutting curse at me." Harry paused. "At least, that's the official
      story. I think that was before my father had the courage to be cut
      off for three months by telling her that maybe she should leave the
      cooking to the house elves." Fred and George just stared at him.
      "Hey, don't judge! And I'm Draco Malfoy, by the way." He peered at
      them suspiciously. "You ARE Purebloods, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wordlessly, Fred nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">George found his voice first. "YOU'RE Draco Malfoy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have a problem with that?" Harry crossed his arms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, but…aren't your parents blonde?" he asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your point being?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How can two blonde people have a black-haired son?" George
      asked reasonably.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, my mother was not having a very public affair with Severus
      Snape, how dare you even suggest that!" Harry screeched.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred held up his hands. "Calm down, he didn't mean to offend
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well he did," Harry sniffed. "In fact, I'm going to write to
      father right now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Isn't he still at the platform?" George asked, perplexed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes he is, but actually talking to your relatives is for
      half-bloods," and with that Harry stormed off, wondering how on
      earth he had managed to keep a straight face through that entire
      exchange. One thing he knew, though, was that he definitely would
      have the twins' respect after they realized he'd tricked them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, Mum, guess what. Guess who we just met on the train,"
      Harry heard Fred say.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who?" Molly asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draco Malfoy!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's nothing, <strong class="calibre9">I</strong> met <em class="calibre8">Harry Potter</em>,"
      Ginny told him, still sounding awestruck.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why'd you want to meet a git like him anyway?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Meeting him wasn't the interesting part," George explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then what was?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Apparently his mum and Snape were having an affair and he's the
      by-product!" Fred exclaimed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"WHAT?" Molly asked. <em class="calibre8">This is much better gossip than last
      year's 'Albus Dumbledore was madly in love with Gellert
      Grindelwald.' Honestly, you'd think Rita Skeeter would learn to
      stop making up such sensational stories. Obviously Dumbledore was
      struck speechless by the blatant lies and thus couldn't be bothered
      to deny it.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's true, he practically admitted it," George confirmed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've got to go find Andromeda," Mrs. Weasley muttered. "Be good
      kids!" And with that she hurried away, Ginny trailing along behind
      her and casting longing looks back at the Express.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anyone sitting here?" Ron asked, entering Harry's compartment
      hesitantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope, go ahead," Harry invited.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, Ron," George said, entering their compartment. "Listen,
      we're going down the—Why are you sitting with Malfoy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Malfoy?" Ron looked confused. "You mean him?" he gestured to
      Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But that's not Malfoy, that's Harry Potter," Ron explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Fred asked. "But…but you told us you were Draco
      Malfoy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "What can I say? Harry Potter, Draco
      Malfoy…Sometimes I get confused."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"George, I think we've been pranked," George said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are first years allowed to do that?" Fred wondered. "Does that
      mean that what you said about Snape's not true either?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It might be," Harry said neutrally. "Feel free to spread the
      rumor in any event."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Both twins' eyes lit up at this and they ran off down the hall.
      Harry felt slightly guilty for doing this when he was planning on
      making a sincere effort to not make Draco Malfoy his arch-nemesis
      (because honestly, if he really wanted one that badly, there was
      always Voldemort), but then decided that since Draco had spread
      that same rumor about his mother and Snape, turnabout was fair
      play.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're my hero," Ron blurted out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because of my facial disfigurement?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, because you pranked Fred and George," Ron explained. At
      Harry's incredulous look, he hastened to add, "But your scar's
      pretty cool, too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, it was really considerate of Voldemort to give me such a
      wicked-looking scar when he attempted to brutally murder me as an
      infant," Harry said dryly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron just stared at him, fascinated and a little horrified. "You
      really shouldn't say his name, you know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, the more people tell me that, the less likely I am to
      actually listen to them," Harry remarked casually.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron looked torn between the desire to impress upon Harry the
      importance of not saying Tom Riddle's silly little pseudonym and
      asking more about the night the two had met for the first time. "Do
      you remember it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You do realize I was fifteen-months-old at the time, right?"
      Harry asked, raising an eyebrow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know!" Ron defended, although his tone of voice indicated
      that he didn't seem to really grasp that Harry was far too young to
      have even properly remembered the event, much less actually play
      some secret part in Voldemort's downfall. "I just thought that you
      might remember because of the scar."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now it was Harry's turn to stare. "You know, I'm starting to
      think that you people don't actually know anything about the way
      that scars work," he said, remembering how everyone had thought
      that his scar made him a lying schizophrenic fifth year.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean 'you people'?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, wizards," Harry explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you're a wizard," Ron pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, but I was raised by <em class="calibre8">Muggles</em>," Harry
      explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What does that matter?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled at Ron's inability to comprehend why it would
      matter. <em class="calibre8">He was so innocent back then…</em> "Muggles don't have
      magic and as such are forced to be much more sensible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh." Ron paused and looked expectantly at Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed. "And to answer your question, yes, a little."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you remember?" Ron asked eagerly. That was the annoying
      part about Ron being so innocent; he tended to have the tact of a
      troll. He'd gotten much better at not asking such painful questions
      such as what he remembered about the first time someone attempted
      to kill him after he'd started dating Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," Harry said, trying to piece together all the flashes
      he'd seen over the years. "I remember someone who I assume is my
      father telling my mother to take me and go. Then there's laughing,
      someone who I assume is my mother begging Voldemort to spare my
      life, he tells her to stand aside and let him kill me, she says no
      and asks him to kill her instead, he does, then there's a lot of
      green light and my forehead felt like it was on fire," Harry
      explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now Ron looked horrified. "I'm sorry, mate, I didn't think-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's okay," Harry cut him off. He really SHOULD have thought,
      but then again, he was only eleven and, knowing Molly Weasley,
      living the most sheltered life imaginable. "Are all your family
      wizards?" Harry asked, quickly changing the subject.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er – yes, I think so," said Ron. "I think Mum's got a second
      cousin who's an accountant, but we never talk about him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry froze. He couldn't believe he'd never realized that the
      first time around, but to be fair, he was only a child at the time.
      "Why not?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron looked confused. "What do you mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your accountant cousin, is he magical?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Ron replied, still not getting it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is that why you don't talk about him?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er…" Clearly Ron had never thought about WHY they pretended
      they didn't have a Squib relative. Just like how the Dursely's
      liked to pretend that they didn't have a wizard nephew. If the
      <em class="calibre8">Weasley's</em> of all people could succumb to Pureblood
      prejudices like that, no wonder Voldemort's only real opposition
      came from vigilante groups who functioned more like Albus
      Dumbledore's personal cult in his quest to atone for helping
      Grindelwald all those years ago. Still, the fact that Ron had never
      realized that his lack of magic was the reason they ignored their
      cousin was to his credit, and so Harry supposed he couldn't really
      take his frustration with the sorry state of the wizarding world
      where everyone was prejudiced against everyone out on him. Not to
      mention that it would completely destroy any chance they'd have of
      being friends.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Has anyone seen a toad? Neville's lost one," Hermione said,
      entering the compartment, Neville trailing behind her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, but you could always summon it," Harry suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know the spell for that," Hermione admitted, sounding
      embarrassed that she didn't know how to do a spell that they didn't
      teach for several more years.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Here, I'll do it," Harry volunteered and took out his wand.
      "<em class="calibre8">Accio Neville's toad!"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing happened for a moment and Hermione looked doubtfully at
      him. "Are you sure that's a real spell?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. Oh, he was sure all right.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, it's not very good, is-" but she was interrupted as
      Trevor flew through the door. "Oh!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron looked over at Harry, surprised. "If you knew how to summon
      his toad, why didn't you do it the first time he was here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Because he'd wanted to see Hermione again and hopefully make a
      better first impression? "I guess I didn't think of it," Harry
      lied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've tired a few simple spells, too, just for practice, and
      it's all worked for me. Nobody in my family's magic at all, it was
      ever such a surprise, but I was so pleased, of course, I mean, it's
      the best school of witchcraft there is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then isn't it convenient that it just happens to be the one
      geographically closest to wear we live?" Harry muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione gave him a Look. "I've learnt all our set books by
      heart, of course, I just hope it will be enough – I'm Hermione
      Granger by the way, who are you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm Ron Weasley," Ron finally managed to say after staring
      blankly at her for three whole minutes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry Potter," Harry told her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you really?" Hermione asked, curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is it with people not having faith that I know my own
      name?" Harry asked Neville, who just shrugged. "And Hermione, I
      didn't know that I was a wizard until I got my letter, because my
      relatives refuse to acknowledge that magic exists, and Ron was
      telling me that there are plenty of Muggle-borns around, so I'm
      sure you'll be fine. Besides, I doubt that anyone else actually
      bothered to memorize all of the textbooks, so I think that not only
      is it enough, you're way ahead of everyone else."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?" Hermione perked up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really," Harry confirmed. "Although, I did memorize our Potions
      textbook," he admitted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron looked horrified at the thought of his potential best friend
      being a bookworm and scooted closer to Neville.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But that's just because I heard that our teacher hated my dad
      and I don't want to give him a reason to hate me," Harry quickly
      added. Not, of course, like Snape would need a reason, but at least
      he wouldn't embarrass him now with his first day surprise
      questions. Harry probably could have just looked up those specific
      questions, but then Snape might get mad and ask him some more. Not
      to mention that it'd been years since his first class with Snape
      and he honestly didn't even remember what the questions were or how
      many of them there were.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, that's okay then," Ron said, relaxing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're in <span>Modern Magical History</span> and <span>The
      Rise and Fall of the Dark Arts,</span> you know," Hermione told
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I wouldn't believe everything you read," Harry told her,
      a bit uncomfortable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why not?" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because by this time tomorrow, the Daily Prophet AND Witch
      Weekly will have probably run a story on how Draco Malfoy is
      Narcissa Malfoy and Severus Snape's love child," Harry told
      her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm afraid I don't understand," Hermione frowned. "Who
      are-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't worry about it," Harry told her. "You'll find out soon
      enough."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I guess I should be going, now that you found Trevor," Hermione
      said, getting up, Neville reluctantly following suit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron, being eleven, didn't notice that they obviously wanted to
      stay, but Harry did and his heart went out to his past and future
      friends. "Hey, why don't you guys stay a while? We've got way too
      much food; we need some help eating it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione beamed and sat right back down again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks, Harry," Neville said quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A short while later, Draco Malfoy entered the compartment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Neville Longbottom," he proclaimed proudly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, yes?" Neville asked, surprised.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not <em class="calibre8">you</em>," Draco told him. "Him," he said, pointing at
      Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry," Harry told him. "But that's Neville."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh. Was I close?" he asked hopefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How could you be close? I'm either a Longbottom or I'm not.
      Which, for the record, I'm not."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, you could be <strong class="calibre9">related</strong> to him," Draco
      pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry snorted. "I probably am, due to all the inbreeding."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco chose to ignore that, partly because he wanted to find out
      who Harry was (as he had most likely spent the past month obsessing
      about it) and partly because it was true. "Then who are you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's Harry Potter," Hermione said helpfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco laughed. "No, really, who is he?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry simply lifted his bangs up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wow, you ARE Harry Potter," Draco said, sounding a little
      astonished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yep," Harry said, vaguely recalling something from his first
      time around. "Weren't people talking about that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, yes," Draco admitted. "But they were also spewing the
      most ridiculous story about my being Professor Snape's
      lovechild."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?" Harry asked innocently. "Wow, I guess people will
      believe anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But Harry," Hermione looked puzzled. "Didn't you already-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Know that people will believe anything?" Neville, surprisingly,
      cut her off; having figured out that Harry had started the rumor.
      "Yeah, he did, but he's been a celebrity for years, so I suppose he
      would have."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're Draco Malfoy then?" Ron sniggered, his eleven-year-old
      maturity level finding the new rumor about him hilarious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fortunately, Draco misinterpreted Ron's amusement. "Think my
      name's funny, do you?" Or perhaps not so fortunately. "No need to
      ask who you are. My father told me all the Weasley's have red hair,
      freckles, and more children than they can afford."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wow, that's oddly specific," Harry remarked. "I take it that
      your fathers' know each other? And are probably not on the best
      terms?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco nodded. "You'd be right, Potter. You'll soon find out that
      some wizarding families are much better than others. You don't want
      to go making friends with the wrong sort. I can help you
      there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry groaned inwardly. It was like Malfoy was <em class="calibre8">trying</em>
      to become his enemy or something. Not, of course, that Harry could
      possibly consider an eleven-year-old boy his enemy, but he knew
      that his school years would go a LOT smoother with one less person
      out to destroy him. How to best handle this? He couldn't shake
      Malfoy's hand, of course, but that would give him the wrong idea
      AND alienate everyone else in the compartment. But how could he NOT
      shake it and still get out of a pointless seven-year rivalry?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Finally, he said, "I'm sure you could, Draco, but the thing is,
      I'm still new to this whole 'Magic is real' thing and so I'm not
      sure if I could really make an informed choice at the moment. You
      wouldn't want me to pick Ron just because we bonded over candy and
      you thought I was Neville, do you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco considered. "I guess not."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And besides, I'd really, REALLY like to at least make it to
      school before alienating anyone," Harry said diplomatically. "So
      maybe at some point I'll decide that you're right, Ron is the root
      of all evil, and take you up on your offer of help. Maybe not. But
      in the meantime, I still need to figure out which of you is right."
      Bull, he knew exactly who was right and who he would ultimately
      choose if either Malfoy or Ron forced his hand. But it was a pretty
      reasonable thing for someone who barely knew either of them to
      say.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright," Draco agreed reluctantly. "But you'll soon see that
      I'm right." And with that he left, the bridge unburnt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: Since people keep asking, let me clarify that I did not
      write scenes of Harry angsting about leaving behind the canon
      universe or Ginny and his unborn child. If this bothers you, you
      can feel free to imagine that he is doing it off-screen. There is
      an entire month between him arriving and when the story picks up
      again when Harry gets on the train. For all we know, he spends the
      entire month coming to term with what happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Review please!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
