<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Oh God Not Again pt1 - Oh God Not Again! Chapter 3, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Oh God Not Again pt1"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s3" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 3</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Note: While, of course, the whole point of Time-Travel stories
      is that Harry (or whoever, but usually Harry) gets to do things
      better based on his knowledge of the future, I don't want him to
      remember every little detail (such as, say, which bottle will get
      him through the flames to confront Quirrell) as that would be
      highly unrealistic, given that Harry doesn't have a photographic
      memory. Maybe Hermione could do that, but not Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Other Note: I'm not positive, but the epilogue seemed to
      indicate that Harry's first child, James Sirius, was a second year
      nineteen years after the final battle (when Harry was 36), which
      would mean that he was born seven years after the final battle,
      which would mean he was born when Harry was twenty-four, which
      would make him twenty-three in this story. Does that work?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: I still don't own Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So where do you think you're going to be?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think I have a pretty good idea," Harry responded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm going to be a Gryffindor," Ron announced proudly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do you know that?" Harry asked. "I mean, unless you're a
      lazy, traitorous, idiot, you could end up in any of the other three
      houses."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All my family has been in Gryffindor," Ron explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So? Do Gryffindor parents necessarily have to raise Gryffindor
      children?" Harry asked, panicking slightly at the thought that
      Gryffindors being such horrible parents that their children would
      HAVE to be brave to survive it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All my family's been in Hufflepuff," Ernie Macmillan
      volunteered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you already know that my family's all been in Slytherin,"
      Draco reminded him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So all three of you want to be in one particular house simply
      because everyone else has been there?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yep," Ron nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I hate to break it to you, but that sounds a lot like
      Hufflepuff loyalty, wanting to be in the same House as everyone
      else in your family," Harry said casually. Ron and Draco looked
      distraught while Ernie beamed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Although," Harry continued thoughtfully. "Wanting to be in a
      House that everyone trusts implicitly and always underestimates is
      brilliant, possibly Ravenclaw of you. Or else a great way to help
      your Slytherin ambitions along."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ernie growled at Harry, but was saved having to answer by his
      name being called. Fortunately, Malfoy didn't have much time to
      advance on Harry menacingly before his name was called.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You didn't really mean all that, did you Harry?" Ron asked, his
      face white. "I really want to be in Gryffindor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure you'll get in there," Harry assured him, feeling a
      little bit guilty for messing with them. Not very, because Draco
      usually had anything Harry felt the need to do to him coming (well,
      except that whole attempted murder thing sixth year, but to be fair
      Draco tried to Crucio him first) and in a little over a year Ernie
      would most likely be convinced that he was evil. Ron, however,
      still had a huge inferiority complex that Harry wanted to help
      with, not make worse. He didn't have much more time to ponder this,
      however, as his name was up soon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Potter, Harry," Professor McGonagall read off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Instantly, the whispers broke out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Potter, did she say?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Harry Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now, Harry had had his fair share of notoriety in his first life
      and had had years to get used to the fame. Still, nothing quite
      compared to the first time a large group of people (particularly
      teenagers) had seen him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, that's right," Harry said, stepping forward. The gossiping
      quickly died down and the teachers looked at each other in slight
      surprise. Clearly everyone had expected him to just passively
      encourage the rumors. As if. "I am Harry Potter. If anyone asks me
      if I'm sure that I am, thus implying that I don't have the
      capabilities of any self-respecting one-year-old, I will hex them.
      You have been warned."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now, Harry wasn't sure that he'd actually hex them (at least if
      they were a third year or younger), but it seemed like a good way
      to stop all of the nonstop questioning of his identity. And the
      horrified look on Snape's face was a nice touch. Although now he
      probably just inadvertently confirmed that he was, in fact, James
      Potter reincarnate. Well, such is the life.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry then walked over to the hat and placed it on his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmmm," the Hat said. "Difficult. Very Difficult."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">How is it difficult? You've already sorted me once.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, but now you've gone back in time to manipulate events in
      your favor, which is a very Slytherin thing to do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Good point. Except, you know, for the whole 'It was a
      complete and total accident' part.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, you're incredibly intelligent for someone of your age,
      maybe you should be a Ravenclaw," the Hat suggested next.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rolled his eyes. <em class="calibre8">Actually, I'm rather average for
      someone of MY age, so no I shouldn't. Although I'll be damned if I
      let Hermione beat me as far as grades go. I don't care if she IS a
      genius; I'm still twelve years older than her.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Hat sighed. "Fine, no Ravenclaw either. But since your
      loyalty, particularly to the Weasley family who you seem to support
      no matter what they do, is astounding, what about Hufflepuff?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. <em class="calibre8">Go ahead; I'll just transfer to
      Gryffindor.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can you do that?" the Hat asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another shrug. <em class="calibre8">I'm the boy-who-lived pre-dark-wizard-rumors.
      I can decide who lives and who dies.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Rather full of yourself, aren't you?" the Hat asked, annoyed at
      Harry's rejection of all other houses.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">A little, yeah,</em> Harry admitted. <em class="calibre8">But hey, isn't that
      a Gryffindor trait? And why are you trying so hard to put me in a
      different House?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, what am I supposed to do? Just put you in Gryffindor
      because you want me to and because I did it once already? That's
      not how these things work," the Hat explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">That's how it worked last time</em>, Harry disagreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, as I have no memory of the incident, I'm forced to
      speculate. You, as a terrified eleven-year-old, had the nerve to
      argue with the being that decided the course of your life. Sounds
      like Gryffindor to me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What do you mean 'course of your life'? I thought it only
      affected Hogwarts?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Hat chuckled, actually chuckled. "Oh please, do you really
      believe that? Name one Slytherin nobody thought was either evil or
      a coward? Or, occasionally, an evil coward?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't have an answer for that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or take Ravenclaws. They're supposed to be incredibly inept and
      spend their whole lives studying, even when you're hit in the face
      of examples of this not being true, such as, from what I can tell
      of your experiences, Cho Chang and Luna Lovegood. Or Hufflepuff,
      they're supposed to be the House you go in when you don't have what
      it takes to be in any of the other houses, but Cedric Diggory was
      apparently the most qualified person in his year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What do they say about Gryffindor?</em> Harry asked, highly
      amused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cannon Fodder."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry snorted. <em class="calibre8">Typical. I guess I kinda see your point,
      though. I mean, Hagrid basically told me that all Dark Wizards are
      Slytherins, even though he knew at least one Golden-boy Gryffindor
      became one, even if he does think it's Sirius not Pettigrew. And
      you hear a lot about how so-and-so's family was all Slytherin so of
      course they're all Death Eaters or, at the very least, Pureblood
      fanatics. And the Weasley's put so much stock in the fact that
      they're all Gryffindor's that it's ridiculous.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you'll go in another House then?" the Hat asked
      hopefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Sorry,</em> Harry apologized. <em class="calibre8">I would, I really would,
      but I'd like to be with my friends again. Not to mention that Ron's
      too immature right now to consider being friends with a
      Slytherin.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine," the Hat grumbled. "I suppose waltzing through the Veil
      of Death counts as being incredibly reckless anyway, might as well
      put you with the other people who don't seem to be capable of
      thinking things through in GRYFFINDOR!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Predictably, his House gave him the loudest cheer yet, not
      suspecting that they'd just been insulted. Ron was quickly sorted
      afterwards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well done, Ron, excellent," Percy said pompously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean excellent?" Harry asked, feigning confusion.
      "He got a Hogwarts Letter; of course they were going to sort
      him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I meant, good job getting into Gryffindor," Percy explained
      patronizingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean that you would have been upset if he got into any of
      the other three equally noble Houses? I would've thought you'd just
      be happy that he's going to be a wizard at all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I am, of course I am," Percy quickly backtracked. "It's
      just that it's better that he's in Gryffindor than in any of the
      other three."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought Prefects were supposed to help promote inter-House
      unity," Harry scratched his head. "Maybe I should ask Dumbledore
      how he plans to achieve that when his representatives among the
      student body insist on perpetuating House prejudices."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Percy paled as the thought of what such a complaint would do to
      his chances to be Head Boy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned his attention to his fellow first years just in
      time to hear Seamus ask, "How did he get covered in blood?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've never asked," came the ghost's delicate reply. Unless
      Harry was very much mistaken, the 'he' they were referring to was
      the Bloody Baron. Now, he probably shouldn't divulge this, seeing
      as how it was obviously something they wanted to keep private, but
      then again, he'd never really liked the Bloody Baron or the Grey
      Lady.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can tell you," Harry spoke up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone turned to him. "And how would <em class="calibre8">you</em>, a first
      year, know a thing like that?" Sir Nicholas demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "Magic?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No one could find a flaw with that answer, although if Harry
      wasn't careful, he'd have everyone clamoring after him to retake
      Divination as he was obviously a Seer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what happened?" asked Seamus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Grey Lady, who, by the way, is the ghost of Ravenclaw
      Tower, is actually Helena Ravenclaw, the daughter of Rowena
      Ravenclaw. I'm guessing being the daughter of the most brilliant
      witch of the time couldn't have been easy and she developed an
      inferiority complex. Her mother had a diadem that was said to make
      the wearer wiser. Helena decided it was a good idea to steal the
      diadem and run off to points unknown with it. Her mother sent a
      former suitor of hers, the Bloody Baron, to go and retrieve her.
      Helena wanted to go back was too proud and so refused. The Baron
      lost his temper, killed her, realized what he did, went all Emo,
      and then killed himself," Harry said, helping himself to some
      treacle tart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That sounds like a bad soap opera," Hermione said, sounding
      affronted. "Are you sure?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, didn't we already go over the whole 'asking Harry if
      he's sure' thing when it came to my name?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, yes, but you're more likely to know you're name than
      something that happened over a millennium ago?" Hermione asked
      reasonably.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, how would you know?" Dean Thomas asked him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "She told me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who, the Grey Lady?" Nearly Headless Nick looked bewildered. At
      Harry's nod, he continued, "When?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Seventh year," Harry replied, making use of the amazing
      phenomena that was telling the truth but having that truth be so
      incredible that everyone assumed you were joking. Well, if you were
      lucky. If not, they tended to think you were a lying
      schizophrenic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, if you didn't want to tell us, you could have just said
      so," Seamus told him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eventually, the subject turned to families.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm half and half," said Seamus. "Me Dad's a Muggle. Mam didn't
      tell him she was a witch 'til after they were married. Bit of a
      nasty shock for him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The others laughed, but Harry frowned. It had seemed so amusing
      the first time around, but with what he'd heard of Snape's
      upbringing because Eileen Prince had done exactly the same
      thing…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're lucky," Harry found himself saying. Everyone looked over
      at him, confused. "You're lucky your dad took it so well. He could
      have easily panicked and left. Or stayed and resented your mother
      for lying to him and you for trapping him there. You're lucky that
      your father's a good man."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was an awkward silence for a moment, as no one quite knew
      what to say to that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Finally, Ron asked, "What about you, Neville?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, my Gran brought me up and she's a witch," said Neville,
      "but the family thought I was a Muggle for ages."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't you mean a Squib?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville nodded. "My Great-Uncle Algie kept trying to catch me
      off my guard and force some magic out of me - he pushed me off the
      end of Blackpool pier once, I nearly drowned - but nothing happened
      until I was eight. Great-uncle Algie came round for tea and was
      hanging me out of an upstairs window by the ankles when my
      great-auntie Enid offered him a meringue and he accidentally let
      go. But I bounced – all the way down the garden and into the road.
      They were all really pleased. Gran was crying, she was so
      happy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dear God, what a difference a mere dozen years makes in a
      person's perspective! "So, let me get this straight," Harry said,
      trying to stay calm. "You're basically saying that your family kept
      attempting to kill you in order to try and force you to do some
      magic? So, if you hadn't been a wizard they would have rather that
      you died? And your Grandmother was so happy that you were magic she
      completely overlooked the fact that if you hadn't managed to use
      magic, you would have died?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"W-well they wanted to know if I was going to be able to attend
      Hogwarts," Neville said timidly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knew that this probably wasn't something that Neville
      needed to hear, but it WAS something that he needed to say. He
      remembered all too well the damage Neville's 'loving family' had
      done to him, damage it took him years to get over. Harry also
      remembered Neville destroying the last bit of Voldemort's
      immortality and enabling Harry to win and felt an intense wave of
      anger at the thought of what Neville's childhood must have been
      like. Because honestly, the Dursely's may have hated him with a
      passion and made that abundantly clear, but at least they never
      tried to kill him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If they wanted to know so badly, they should have checked the
      Hogwarts register. Granted that was probably highly unusual and
      possibly against regulation, but Dumbledore would have made an
      exception if he knew that your relatives would attempt to kill
      you," Harry said coldly. "And all that pressure was probably
      detrimental to any chance of you performing accidental magic.
      Basically, what I'm saying is that they really shouldn't have done
      that you, Neville."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville said nothing, but eyed him with an oddly speculative
      look on his face.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's classes progressed much as they did the last time, he
      supposed, except he knew how to perform all the simple first-year
      spells and thus his teachers were torn between thinking he was a
      prodigy and thinking he was somehow cheating.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Defense Against the Dark Arts was a little different, though.
      Harry decided that while he wouldn't do anything that would make it
      blatantly obvious that he knew that Quirrell and Voldemort on the
      back of his head, that didn't mean he had to ignore what he had
      noticed the first time around, even if he had misinterpreted
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The minute Quirrell's back was turned to write on the
      chalkboard, Harry felt the familiar pain in his scar (or
      semi-familiar; he hadn't felt it in six years, after all) and he
      put his hand on his forehead and yelped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"E-e-everything all r-right, Mr. P-P-P-Potter?" Quirrell
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your turban makes my scar hurt," Harry said bluntly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"W-what?" Quirrell asked, looked panicked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The rest of the class just laughed, clearly not believing him.
      But, he supposed that was better than them deciding he was crazy.
      In fact, maybe if he set it up like this now, there wouldn't be
      that Rita Skeeter fiasco when she found out about his dreams.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You heard me," Harry told him. "So I would appreciate it if you
      could not have your turban completely facing me as I think that
      would be more conducive to my learning environment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How does your SCAR hurt, Harry?" Hermione asked skeptically.
      "Wouldn't that be your forehead?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "I don't know what to tell you, Hermione. All I
      know is that my scar hurts, not my forehead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"HOW?" Hermione repeated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wasn't quite sure how to explain it and so left it at
      that.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Finally came the day he was most looking forward to: First-year
      Potions as a semi-competent adult. Some would consider this
      cheating. Harry would consider having the Potions teacher not have
      a personal vendetta against you as cheating. It evened out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, yes," were Snape's first words to him. "Harry Potter. Our
      new – celebrity."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry, sir, is that your way of asking for an autograph?"
      Harry asked innocently. He took the vein bulging in Snape's
      forehead to be a 'no' and continued, "It's just that I only found
      out that my parents weren't drunken bums who died in a car crash a
      little over a month ago, so I'm very new to this fame thing. I
      appreciate how considerate you're being."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Oh, now look, another vein! While Harry fully acknowledged that
      Snape was one of the metaphorical 'good guys', he also realized
      that the only possible chance of him getting Snape to like him died
      when the Sorting Hat proclaimed him a Gryffindor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Actually, he reflected, he very well could make an effort…Nah.
      What was the fun if he didn't have anyone to bother? And at least
      with Snape, everyone took his side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Potter!" Snape's voice jolted him out of his musings. "What
      would I get if I added powdered root of asphodel to an infusion of
      wormwood."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draught of Living Death," Harry replied matter-of-factly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which is?" Snape pressed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor, I'm not entirely sure why you're asking me questions
      to which you don't know the answer but I'm pleased to inform you
      that I, a first year, know that it is a very powerful sleeping
      potion that makes it appear that you're dead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course I knew that, Potter!" Snape snapped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure you did," Harry said, sounding slightly dubious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I suppose everyone gets lucky once, something that you'd
      know plenty about, Potter…" Snape muttered distractedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stared. "Um, sir? Did you just compare me getting a
      potions answer to correct to Voldemort attempting to brutally
      murder me after brutally murdering my Mum and Dad?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape started, realizing he'd spoken aloud. "Where would you
      look if I told you to find me a bezoar?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In the potions cupboard?" Harry suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape's eyes flashed. "Potter!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What? You can't actually expect me to go out, find a goat, and
      extract a bezoar from its stomach…can you?" At this, Harry looked a
      bit scared; he had no doubt that Snape could very well expect that
      of Harry. Especially if he continued to provoke him like this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's the difference between monkshood and Wolfsbane?" Snape
      fired off another question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not very nice to try and trick me, sir," Harry said. "And
      I know full well that they're the same plant. Although why they go
      by two different names, well, three if you count aconite, is beyond
      me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose you qualify as competent, Potter," Snape said
      grudgingly, completely ignoring the fact that first years should
      not be expected to memorize their textbooks on the first day.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Although that first question…when Harry was trying to get Ginny
      to forgive him for abandoning her after Dumbledore's funeral, he
      decided to send her a message in flowers and so got a book on
      Victorian Flower Language. If he recalled correctly, asphodel was a
      type of lily meaning 'My regrets follow you to the grave' and
      wormwood means 'absence' and also typically symbolized bitter
      sorrow. If you combined that, it meant 'I bitterly regret Lily's
      death.' Now, there's no way a normal first year would be able to
      get that (and Harry didn't even know if Snape meant to convey
      that), but is just seemed like too big of a coincidence, out of all
      the potions Snape could have asked about, he chose that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," Harry said quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape just nodded curtly. "Well? Why aren't you all copying that
      down?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry partnered with Ron and noticed that Neville was looking a
      bit pale.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, Neville? Why don't you work with Hermione? After all,
      she's read the textbook a few times and so she probably won't mess
      up," Harry suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione smiled at this and the two moved over to the same
      table.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Harry was right; Hermione did know what she was doing and
      Neville managed to avoid exploding anything this time around. He
      still cast Protego on himself, but that was more to get into the
      habit of it. Now that he knew how to protect himself from the
      various potions incidents, why not use it, after all?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Review please!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: I, personally, am a fan of Snape. Harry, however, is not.
      I'm trying to have him be a good guy without Harry necessarily
      having to like him, even if he appreciates everything he's done for
      him. Does that make sense?</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
