<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Oh God Not Again pt1 - Oh God Not Again! Chapter 7, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Oh God Not Again pt1"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s7" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 7</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: I still do not own Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: Yeah, I looked back and Ron <em class="calibre8">didn't</em> give Harry a
      Christmas present. I wanted to keep the presents of everyone who
      gave Harry a present last time the same and I guess I just assumed
      that he HAD sent him a present, but he didn't and that's kind of
      weird. Unless, of course, you count the Weasley sweater, but he
      didn't seem to anticipate that his mom would send Harry anything,
      so I don't think that really counts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Other Note: I'm sure everyone thinks Harry is quite strange, but
      none of them have any frame of reference to compare his behavior
      to, so for all they know, he was always like this. Also, this
      story's AU-ness now includes Tonks being a year younger than she
      was in canon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There weren't a lot of people staying for the holidays, but it
      was certainly more than had stayed during his second year. Harry
      elected to sit by a pretty blonde witch who looked like a sixth or
      seventh year.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hi," Harry greeted. "Do you mind if we sit here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wotcher, Harry," she greeted. "And no, I don't mind."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry froze. She <em class="calibre8">looked</em> nothing like her, but her voice
      sounded so familiar AND she had used her trademark greeting.
      "Tonks?" he asked uncertainly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She cocked her head at him. "Do I know you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not exactly," Harry admitted. "But I took it upon myself to
      research my godfather's family members after he broke out of
      Azkaban."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Family members?" Fred asked, staring at Tonks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Godfather?" Tonks repeated, staring at Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Yep, my godfather is none other than one Sirius
      Black. You're his cousin, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My mum is," Tonks explained. "That's why I'm here. Given the
      sheer number of Azkaban inmates I'm related to, my mum has always
      had policy where every time one of my Death Eater relatives breaks
      out of Azkaban, I have to stay at Hogwarts where it's safe.
      Needless to say, this is the first time we've actually had to put
      this into practice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're RELATED to Sirius Black?" Ron asked, stricken.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks eyed him critically. "You're a Weasley, right?" At Ron's
      nod, she continued, "You are too, just not as closely related."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron looked faint.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course, you're not as closely related to Sirius as you are
      to Draco," Harry added, smirking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron groaned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you know about me?" Harry asked, curious as to what the
      other houses made of him this time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks snorted. "Please, everyone knows you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But what do they say about me?" Harry pressed</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They say you have a death wish," Tonks responded cheerfully.
      "Is it true that you went chasing after a full-grown troll because
      you were bored?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, kind of," Harry said sheepishly. "But if anyone asks it
      was because I was so distraught that Sirius escaped that I wasn't
      thinking clearly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Personally, I think you're just nuts," Tonks offered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "That works, too. Just don't tell the Prophet.
      I've got a good thing going here, being able to do or say whatever
      because everyone seems to idolize my forehead, and I wouldn't want
      anything to compromise that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I promise," Tonks laughed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you're a seventh year?" Percy asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Tonks confirmed. "I'm a Hufflepuff."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you can tell me all about OWLS!" Percy said excitedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Here he goes again," Fred sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He does this whenever he talk to someone who's already taken
      them," George confided.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The week we took OWLS was the worst week of my life," Tonks
      declared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The twins exchanged glances.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, we could really use all the help we could get…"
      George began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks groaned.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"That girl was strange," Ron commented as they made their way
      back to the Common Room that evening.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, she is," Harry agreed. "But I like her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So do I. That was the most productive meal I've had in quite
      some time," Percy said happily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She looked like she was really regretting letting us sit down,"
      Harry noticed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why?" Now Percy was confused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"SOME people don't enjoy discussing exams they took a year and a
      half ago at Christmas, Perce," Fred told him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you only let me ask her about them for twenty minutes,"
      Percy protested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because she was looking homicidal and we were feeling
      generous," George explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What? I-" Percy began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron tapped Harry on the shoulder. "Hey, mate, can I talk to you
      for a second?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure," Harry said surprised and they headed up to their
      dormitory, ignoring the three older Weasley brothers continued
      debate about the merits of rehashing exams.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron stared at the ground, looking extremely uncomfortable.
      "Listen, I know you must have spent a fortune on my present and I
      know I didn't get you anything. I'm sorry about that and I feel
      really bad but I just…I don't have any money. I know you're not the
      type to flaunt your wealth like Malfoy and some of the others, but
      it's pretty obvious that you have money. I couldn't afford to buy
      anything, mum had to make the sweater and fudge she sent you and,
      well…what could <strong class="calibre9">I</strong> have possibly gotten someone
      like you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Poor Ron. It's not like Harry was <em class="calibre8">trying</em> to make him
      insecure, but he had been a little blasé about the ridiculous
      amount of fame and fortune he possessed, having been long used to
      it and used to Ron being long used to it, too. It made sense that
      he was a little overwhelmed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry put a hand on his best friend's shoulder. "Ron, look at
      me." Ron did, reluctantly. "You gave me your friendship when I had
      no one. The only other person I even knew was Hagrid, and he
      <span>had</span> to be nice to me, he was a representativeof the
      school and knew my parents. You didn't have to be and even though
      it took a bit, you remain one of the only people here who can see
      past my scar and you have no idea how much that meant to me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It didn't seem like it. You've been nothing but confident since
      the moment I met you," Ron countered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, technically this was true, but really only because of Ron
      and Hermione the first time around. "Ron, you saw what my relatives
      sent. Enough money to buy a small piece of candy and death threats.
      I've never had ANYONE until I met you and that's more important
      than any broomstick."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you mean it?" Ron asked hopefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," Harry smiled. "But I will be expecting something
      for my birthday. July 31st, write it down."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron laughed and they headed back downstairs to play wizard's
      chess.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey Ron," Harry shook him awake early that morning. Quite
      early, in fact, as it could barely be even be called morning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tap-dancing spiders!" Ron shouted as he shot up, knocking Harry
      to the floor. "Huh? You're not a tap-dancing spider."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I'm not," Harry gritted his teeth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what are you doing on the floor?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, nothing…I just wanted to know if you wanted to use my
      invisibility cloak to go find a magic mirror."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aren't most mirrors magical?" Ron asked skeptically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This one shows you things you want, not lectures you about your
      appearance," Harry explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure, why not," Ron said, rubbing his eyes as he headed for the
      door. Unfortunately, he misjudged the distance to the stairs and
      fell down all of them. Fortunately, the first year dorms were the
      closest to the bottom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Watch your step," Harry called, a little late, as he grabbed
      his invisibility cloak and hurried to Ron's side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What was that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sounded like a cannon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Weasley twins appeared on the scene.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, it's just Ron."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you guys doing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor Dumbledore finally got around to giving me my
      father's invisibility cloak back after he felt the need to borrow
      it for the last ten years or so and so Ron and I decided to go
      looking for this kickass mirror Dumbledore has around here," Harry
      explained. "Wanna come?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The twins stared at him incredulously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you even need-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"to ask?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hm, the twins tended to do the whole twinspeak thing a long less
      around Harry, since he could actually tell them apart. Of course,
      he hadn't seen fit to mention that was because he cast silent
      identifier spells at them every time they entered the room, but
      hey. They were bloody identical and enjoyed confusing people. He
      was really just levelling the playing field.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's the meaning of this?" Percy came down the stairs. "It's
      long past curfew and even though that doesn't technically apply to
      the Common Rooms, it's far too late to be up and about. You're not
      planning on sneaking off somewhere, are you?" he asked
      suspiciously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course not," Fred assured him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Percy still looked skeptical.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry is though, and he just invited us," George beamed. "And
      may I just say that I am SO proud."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ron, this one is definitely a keeper," Fred told him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can't just-" Percy began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's the holidays, I don't have classes tomorrow and there is
      nothing you can do short of hexing me that will stop me," Harry
      interrupted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll tell Professor McGonagall," Percy threatened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So I'll get a couple of detentions, that's not exactly enough
      to deter me. My relatives would be thrilled to hear I'm doing my
      utmost to get myself killed, and I honestly do not give a damn
      about house points."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?" Ron asked, wide-eyed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really. You see, I've come to the conclusion that the 'House
      Cup' is really more of a 'Suck-up Cup.' After all, the more of a
      teacher's pet you are, the more points you win. God knows I love
      Hermione, but she has got to be the biggest teacher's pet I have
      ever met and guess what? She's the single biggest point winner in
      our year. I don't care is I lose Gryffindor all of our points
      because quite frankly I don't want to be a sycophant all year just
      so the Great Hall gets to be decorated in our colors for one meal
      and you get an entire train-ride's worth of bragging rights. It's
      just not worth it," Harry concluded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry my good friend," George began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You might be on to something," Fred finished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And by the time you'd find McGonagall, we'd be long gone. So
      how about it, Percy? Would you really stoop so low as to hex a
      first year?" Harry challenged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I…no," Percy said, defeated. "But I'm coming with you to make
      sure you don't do anything stupid." Percy paused. "Well, anything
      stupider than this," he amended.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "The more the merrier."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're lost, aren't you?" Ron asked as they walked past the
      same portrait for the third time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No I'm not," Harry insisted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But we've been <em class="calibre8">past</em> here," Ron countered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know what I'm doing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's lost," Fred said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I kn-What the…" George trailed off as a door appeared in front
      of them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That door wasn't there a minute ago," Percy said, peering
      intently at it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know. It's a MAGIC door," Harry explained. "Come on, let's
      go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry opened the door and they all went in. In the center of the
      room was a huge mirror with an elaborate golden frame and standing
      on two clawed feet. The inscription read "Erised stra ehru oyt ube
      cafru oyt on wohsi."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What the hell does that even mean?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "Beats me, I always figured it was some obscure
      language that only really old people with nothing better to do with
      their time understood. I know it's called the Mirror of
      Erised."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a moment of silence and then Percy said slowly, "I
      show not your face but your heart's desire."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, that's great Perce-" said Fred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But what does that have to do with-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The price of dragon's eggs-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In France?" George asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Percy rolled his eyes. "It's obviously backwards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Obviously," Fred mimicked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?" Harry asked, looking closer at the inscription. "I
      show not your…you're right! That's amazing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It wasn't that hard," Percy said, but he looked pleased.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So take a look," Harry invited. He looked in the mirror and saw
      Ginny holding a baby with messy black hair. Ron and Hermione stood
      next to her holding Teddy's hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you see?" Ron asked, hesitant to step in front of the
      mirror without knowing what to expect.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My family," came the quiet answer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see our own joke shop!" George exclaimed. "Sweet!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do, too. And I see Angeli-I mean, that's really a nice joke
      shop," said Fred, looking a little embarrassed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see myself as the Head Boy and the Quidditch captain," Ron
      announced.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Grand plans," Harry remarked. "Can you even BE the Head Boy and
      Quidditch captain at the same time?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The twins looked mildly ill at the prospect of yet ANOTHER Head
      Boy wannabe in their family and Percy looked thrilled at the
      thought of someone following in his footsteps. When Percy finally
      stepped in front of the mirror, he gasped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Minister of Magic?" Fred asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probably," George agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't think so, though. He sidled up to Percy and spoke
      quietly. "You see your family accepting you." It wasn't a
      question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Percy looked startled. "How did you-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not all dreams are impossible, Percy."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's life soon settled back into a monotonous routine (or as
      monotonous as anything ever was since Harry had decided on a devil
      may care approach to his second chance) until one Quidditch
      practice where Oliver Wood announced that Snape would be referring
      Gryffindor's next match against Hufflepuff. Harry had forgotten
      about that, but it wasn't really very big in the grand scheme of
      things. What DID interest Harry was the fact that this would
      provide him with his first opportunity to approach Cedric since he
      arrived. Granted, reacquainting himself with Tonks (for he did make
      an effort to see her whenever he could) was a complete and total
      accident and a result of Sirius's decision to escape while Tonks
      was still at school, but he found he rather liked seeing her again
      after all these years. He hadn't been nearly as close to Cedric,
      but his death had a profound impact on him too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That certainly sounds like a bit of a conflict of interest,"
      was Harry's only comment. "You'd think they'd have a teacher who
      wasn't a Head of House be the referee if they weren't going to use
      Madame Hooch." Of course, the WHY of the matter eluded him. Was
      this yet more evidence pointing towards Madame Hooch being a Squib?
      Though Harry wasn't quite sure how much being up in the air with
      him would help Snape stop another attempt, especially as he'd need
      to actually pay attention to the going-ons for the other
      players.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shouldn't you be a little more concerned about the fact that
      he's going to blatantly cheat?" Wood asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I would, but the referee can only do so much and the 150
      points I get when I catch the Snitch will definitely help on our
      way to the Cup. And besides, since he's doing it for me, I'm kind
      of obligated to be a bit, dare I say it, grateful," Harry shuddered
      at the thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone stared at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, I don't quite think that <em class="calibre8">Snape-</em>" George
      began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is going to be blatantly biased towards Hufflepuff for your
      sake-" Fred continued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unless you have money on them or something," George ended.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rolled his eyes. "Oh please. And he's doing it to make
      sure that Quirrell doesn't try to kill me again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That set off a whole new round of questions.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">When Harry had finally finished answering everyone's questions
      and changed, forty-five minutes had elapsed. Honestly, it was like
      a bloody press conference, he reflected wryly as he headed to
      Gryffindor Tower to tell Ron and Hermione the news.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had just finished convincing Ron that his safety was, in
      fact, more important than a Quidditch game and he couldn't always
      jump off of his broom or else it would get old, when Neville showed
      up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey guys," he said cheerfully. "You'll never guess who I just
      ran into."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who?" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Malfoy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you're…<strong class="calibre9">happy</strong>…about this?" Ron couldn't
      believe it. "Bloody hell, first Harry, now Neville…Stay strong
      Hermione! Don't give in to his temptation!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione giggled. "I'll…try not to, Ron."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, what happened?" Harry asked, for once the one to bring
      everybody back on topic. He vaguely remembered a conversation like
      this, but Neville had been much more upset…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, right. Well, I ran into him outside of the library and he
      said he'd been looking for someone to practice on," Neville
      explained. "He shot a Leg-Locker curse at me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And this makes him happy," Ron remarked. "Either Neville's got
      some strange preferences or Malfoy's spell is stronger than I
      thought…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione ignored him. "What did you do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dodged it and ran like hell," Neville grinned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nice," Harry approved.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You should have hexed him back," Ron told him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No he shouldn't have!" Hermione said, scandalized.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Would YOU have wanted to just stand there and face off by
      yourself against Malfoy and his two half-troll bodyguards?" Neville
      asked rhetorically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry finally managed to place the situation. "You're worth
      twelve of Malfoy," he echoed his words of twelve years prior. "And
      don't you forget it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Review Please!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
