<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Oh God Not Again pt1 - Oh God Not Again! Chapter 8, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Oh God Not Again pt1"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s8" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 8</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: I still don't own Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The day before the match, Harry was flying around the Quidditch
      Pitch idly when he saw Cedric Diggory on the ground, holding a
      broom and watching him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Spying on me?" Harry asked as he landed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric shook his head. "Hardly. And I've already seen you play,
      remember?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You go to matches you're not playing?" Harry asked,
      surprised.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric stared at hm. "Of course, it's helpful to see how the
      other team flies. Are you saying you don't?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head ruefully. "Well, I would, but I always get
      so frustrated whenever I spot the Snitch and the Seekers are
      oblivious. It's really not good for my blood pressure."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You could always watch the other players," Cedric
      suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I could, but unless one team has scored fifteen more goals than
      the other, the other players don't matter all that much in the
      outcome of the match, so I never really see the point," Harry
      confided.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Seeker bias," Cedric laughed. "I completely understand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good," Harry said, relieved. "Everyone else thinks I'm
      crazy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"From what I've heard, you are. We haven't been properly
      introduced, have we? I'm Cedric Diggory," he said, sticking his
      hand out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry Potter," Harry replied, shaking his hand. "First Tonks,
      now you…Does everyone here think I'm crazy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pretty much," Cedric said cheerfully. "That's not necessarily a
      bad thing, though. Hogwarts and the Wizarding World in general have
      been stuck to the status quo for far too long and it's about time
      someone came and shook things up, even if I'm sure your motives are
      far less noble."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So why are you out here then?" Harry asked. "Trying to get one
      more practice in before the match tomorrow?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sort of. This is my first year on the team and you're HARRY
      POTTER and insanely good at flying and don't mind jumping off your
      broom to catch the Snitch and I'm just not sure that my sanity's
      damaged enough to let me pull the kind of stunts that you probably
      will to win. Nymphadora eventually got so tired of watching me pace
      that she kicked me out of the Common Room."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wow," Harry said, his eyes wide as saucers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Cedric asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did you get her to let you call him Nymphadora? I've been
      trying for <em class="calibre8">weeks</em> and I haven't had any luck." More like
      years, but no need to tell him that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric laughed. "She lost a bet last year. And before you get
      any ideas, she's vowed to never again let the use of her first name
      be a part of a bet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because she lost once?" Harry complained. "That's not
      fair."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Twice, actually. Charlie Weasley apparently won a bet with her
      four years ago and wanted the same thing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Damn. There goes that plan…"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The next day, Ron, Hermione, and Neville wished him luck outside
      of the locker rooms, clearly wondering whether he'd survive the
      match.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, relax guys. Not only is Snape not out to kill me and on
      hand to make sure nothing goes wrong, but given what happened last
      time, Professor Dumbledore will probably be here as well. I'll be
      <em class="calibre8">fine</em>," he assured them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You thought last time went fine, too, and you ended up jumping
      off of your broom," Neville pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So? We won," Ron and Harry said at the same time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione rolled her eyes. "Just…try and be careful, okay?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm always careful," Harry assured her as he headed into the
      locker room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was afraid he was going to say that…" Hermione said, gazing
      worriedly after him.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Unfortunately for Harry, he didn't find the Snitch as easily as
      he had the last time he played this match. He supposed that made
      sense; finding the Snitch in five minutes had been a rarity once,
      doing it again in the same match twelve years later (well, for him,
      anyway) was downright impossible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked over at the stands and saw Ron and Neville taking on
      Draco, Crabbe, and Goyle and briefly wondered what that was about.
      Oliver had only let three goals in while they had scored eight. At
      around forty minutes into the game, he noticed the Snitch hovering
      around his ear. Feeling slightly anticlimactic, he reached up and
      plucked it from the air. Game over.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">In the weeks that followed, Hermione had begun to obsess about
      the exams, which were still two and a half months away. She had
      tried to get Ron, Neville, and Harry to follow the schedules she
      had drawn up for them, but even though Neville found her methods
      quite helpful, Harry had refused outright. Quite apart from his
      twelve-year advantage placing him at the top of the class, no one
      ever actually failed first year, and given some of the older
      students at Hogwarts, that was really saying something. In fact,
      Harry didn't quite think that it was <em class="calibre8">possible</em> to fail
      until fifth year (and he had, in fact, not even taken the exams
      fourth year, so they couldn't be that important). Needless to say,
      Hermione was not pleased to hear this, but there was really nothing
      she could do to make Harry study, so she harped on Ron twice as
      hard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Still, his friends were constantly doing homework and everyone
      in the castle it seems was studying for exams, and so he spent far
      more time than he'd like to in the library. On one such afternoon,
      he was flipping idly through the pages of <em class="calibre8">Quidditch Through the
      Ages</em> when he heard Ron call out, "Hagrid! What are you doing
      in the library?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Looking for a book to read?" Harry suggested. "I mean, what
      else would he possibly be doing in here, hitting on Madame
      Pince?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Jus' looking," Hagrid confirmed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unless I missed my guess, you just came from the dragon
      section," Harry said casually. "And don't even give me that look,
      guys! I'm spending more time in here than I am sleeping; I need
      something to occupy my time!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You could try studying," Hermione suggested, but Harry ignored
      her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You wouldn't happen to be looking into raising a dragon, would
      you?" Harry asked innocently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait, you don't actually <em class="calibre8">have</em> a dragon, do you?"
      Neville asked quietly. "I mean, that would explain why you're
      keeping all the windows shut and a fire going despite the fact that
      it's spring."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How would you know that? We haven't been down to see him in a
      couple of weeks," Ron pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, well I'm helping Professor Sprout out with the Greenhouses
      and I always say hi to Hagrid while I'm down there. The past four
      days, though…" Neville trailed off. "So are you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe…" Hagrid admitted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hasn't that been illegal for, what, two hundred years?" Harry
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Technically…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That settles it," Hermione said, putting her books in her bag.
      "We're going to go down and see this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even though Ron didn't particularly want to go and stare at an
      egg in a virtual inferno, he was pretty excited to be doing
      something other than studying and he quickly gathered up everyone's
      things.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't believe it…I just can't believe it…" Hermione was
      muttering as they followed Harry back up to the castle. "How could
      he be so irresponsible? He lives in a small, wooden house and has
      no means for providing a safe an adequate environment for a baby
      dragon, not to MENTION they're illegal-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where are we going?" Ron interrupted her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know about you, but I'm going to go see Professor
      Dumbledore," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're going to tell him about Hagrid?" Neville asked. At
      Harry's nod, he continued, "But won't he get in trouble?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He might," Harry admitted. "But Dumbledore's always been good
      at covering up things that go on at the school and I'm sure he can
      come up with a perfectly reasonable explanation as to why we have a
      baby dragon on our hands."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But Hagrid's counting on us!" Ron protested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True enough," Harry nodded. "On the other hand, Hagrid, as much
      as I love him, seems to be almost completely lacking common sense
      and I think we can all agree that the dragon has got to go. We're
      four eleven-year-olds; this really can't be our responsibility. The
      best thing to do in this situation is to turn it over to the
      responsible adults who <em class="calibre8">should</em> be taking care of this and
      that means going to Professor Dumbledore. Bertie Bott's Every
      Flavor Beans. Wow, first try," he remarked as the Gargoyle's
      guarding the Headmaster's office sprung aside.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry?" Professor Dumbledore looked up, surprised, as his
      office was invaded by four first year students. "Miss Granger, Mr.
      Weasley, Mr. Longbottom? What are you doing here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry noticed that despite the fact that they'd never actually
      spoken in this timeline (mostly because first years didn't really
      have much cause for interacting with the infinitely important Albus
      Dumbledore but partly because he wasn't quite sure what to say to
      the man, even now, seven years after his death. Or five years
      before, however you looked at it), Dumbledore used his first name.
      Interesting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, well, Professor Dumbledore, sir, Harry here wanted to see
      if you could, well, help with a problem we have, or discovered,
      really-" Hermione was clearly flustered to be speaking to the
      Headmaster of Hogwarts and Head of the Wizengamot for the first
      time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry decided to put her out of her misery. "Hagrid found a
      dragon egg and he doesn't seem to understand that it's not legal or
      safe for him to raise it, especially at a school. We were hoping
      that, seeing as how we're eleven and you're a responsible adult,
      you'd take care of it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore peered at him over the top of his half-moon
      spectacles. "You're certain of this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry bit back a smart remark. He really would prefer to not
      have to deal with this personally, so he'd have to make a real
      effort to be respectful. "Yes sir."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see. Well, I must commend you for bringing this straight to
      me. Most students, I've found, tend to take care of these sorts of
      things alone, which can end badly. Five points to Gryffindor for
      each of you for your wisdom in getting a teacher involved."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As soon as they were back in the hallway, Harry groaned. "Oh
      great, at this rate we'll <strong class="calibre9">never</strong> lose the House
      Cup."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Most people wouldn't see this as a problem, Harry," Hermione
      told him, confused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I do because it's the Suck-Up Cup, remember?" When Hermione
      shook her head, Harry continued, "Oh, right, you weren't there.
      Either way, I believe that the House Cup is a school-wide
      conspiracy to try and spawn as many teacher's pets as they can and
      encourage teacher's pet-like behavior in everyone. Snape and I are
      doing all we can, but we can't lose Gryffindor the House Cup
      alone!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione just stared at him. "You have problems."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The exams were, of course, ridiculously easy. Flitwick wanted
      them to make a pineapple tap-dance across a desk and he made it tap
      not only across the desk but on the floor, up the wall, and on the
      ceiling, too. McGonagall wanted them to turn a mouse into a
      snuffbox and (after complaining, as he always did, how inhumane it
      was to turn living creatures into inanimate objects) his was
      jewel-encrusted. Snape wanted them to brew a Forgetfulness Potion
      with no directions and Harry did it with his eyes literally closed.
      Not to mention how he did on the written tests. Honestly, first
      year end of the year exams just weren't written for twenty-three
      year olds, no matter how little they actually paid attention in
      class.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The night the exams finished, the Trio plus Neville (Harry had
      never really liked the term quartet, it always reminded him of an
      orchestra for some reason) were sitting in the Common Room,
      enjoying the fact that exams were over.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Still, events being as they were, Harry would have to destroy
      the peace. "So," Harry said casually. "My scar told me that
      Professor Dumbledore's in London right now and Quirrell is taking
      advantage of his absence to go after the Philosopher's Stone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Ron, who had been drifting off, sat up, suddenly wide
      awake.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Philosopher's Stone? There's a Philosopher's Stone at
      Hogwarts?" Hermione asked, her voice higher than usual.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, yeah. I mean, what else do you think is in that one third
      floor corridor we're forbidden to go to under pain of death?" Harry
      asked rhetorically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why would anyone hide something like THAT in a school full of
      children?" Neville asked sensibly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry laughed. "That is a damn good question. The fact remains
      that he did, though, and I get that I should have probably
      mentioned this before now, but I'm going after Quirrell and nothing
      you can do will stop me, so I was wondering whether you'd like to
      come with me or stay here and hope I don't get killed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Twenty minutes later, after Hermione tried everything she could
      think of to convince him to stay or at least give a better reason
      for why he was going, the four of them were heading out the
      portrait hole.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where are you going?" Percy demanded. "Don't you know it's past
      curfew."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled pleasantly. "Oh, I know. I just don't care."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We are so going to get expelled for this," Hermione grumbled as
      they made their way towards the third floor corridor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh we will not," Harry disagreed. "We're only breaking one
      little rule. I mean, we may die, but they can't possibly expel us
      because they're stupid enough to think putting Dark Wizard bait in
      a school full of children is a good idea. Honestly."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who's there?" Peeves said, coming from around the corner. "Know
      you're there, even if I can't see you. Are you a ghoulie or ghostie
      or wee student beastie? Should call Filch, I should, if soemthing's
      a-creeping around unseen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hiya Peeves," Harry said brightly, pulling the Invisibility
      Cloak off of him but leaving it to cover the others.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Potty?" Peeves asked. "What are you doing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Causing mayhem," Harry said. "I'm endangering myself and three
      other students by sneaking off to the third corridor. Is that
      irresponsible enough for you to let us go on our way?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Peeves considered. "This would be the corridor that Dumblydore
      said if you go near, you'll die?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yep," Harry confirmed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, alright," Peeves agreed. "GOT YOUR CONK!" he shouted
      before zooming off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ow…" Harry said, rubbing his nose. "Don't <em class="calibre8">even</em> laugh
      guys."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When they did reach the door to the third corridor, it was
      already open. Harry was surprised, they'd left an hour or so
      earlier than last time, how early did Quirrell leave? Oh well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now guys, don't panic or anything, but there's a giant
      three-headed dog in there," Harry said cheerfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A…a what?" Ron asked, clearly panicking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, don't worry," Harry said. "It also instantly falls asleep
      whenever it hears music and I brought the flute Hagrid got me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry entered the room, his friends reluctantly trailing behind.
      He played the flute and watched as first Neville, then Ron, finally
      Hermione jumped through the trapdoor. He then, still playing,
      jumped through himself, wondering idly how in the world they were
      going to get back up. Oh well, that wasn't his problem, that was
      Ron and Hermione's.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By the time he landed, he discovered that Neville had already
      gotten rid of the Devil's Snare. Harry supposed it paid to have a
      genuine Herbology prodigy with them this time. After all, having a
      plant try to kill you was highly embarrassing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They moved on to the next room where they found hundreds of
      flying keys and a few old broomsticks. "Yeah, I'll deal with this,"
      Harry said, taking his Nimbus 2000 out of his pocket and
      unshrinking it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you take that with you <em class="calibre8">everywhere</em>?" Hermione asked
      him incredulously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yep," Harry nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Boys…" she muttered, giving him a disgusted look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took off and, two minutes later, had grabbed the key and
      landed. He jammed it in the lock and completely ignored the awed
      silence behind him. So he was, quite possibly, the best flier in
      Britain. He'd had years of practice, it wasn't all natural talent
      (not that THEY knew that).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then they reached the chessboard. Harry groaned. He hated chess.
      He was also incredibly bad at it, probably worse than an
      eleven-year-old Ron, so there was really nothing to do but sit back
      and wait for the game to be over. When it was and Ron lay crumpled
      on the floor again (seriously, it's like Ron was masochistic or
      something), Hermione, Neville, and Harry hurried on to the next
      room, trying not to think too much about the blood pouring out of
      Ron's head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">He was fine before, he'll be fine now</em>, Harry tried to
      reassure himself. It wasn't very comforting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They walked through the room with the unconscious troll and
      continued to Snape's potion's puzzle. The three of them read
      Snape's riddle (although, really, wouldn't it just make sense for
      Snape to simply TELL Professor Dumbledore which bottle was which
      and then not let anyone else have any idea?) and Hermione began
      walking up and down the aisle, tapping bottles and muttering to
      herself. Harry was pleased to note that he figured out which bottle
      was which a good three minutes before Hermione did. It really did
      pay to have dozen-year head start sometimes when dealing with
      someone as brilliant as Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, um…right. There might be enough for two of us to get
      through to face Quirrell, but definitely not for three of us. I'm
      going in, of course, and I'm guessing you won't let me go in alone,
      so I suggest rock, paper, scissors."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After trying to explain to Neville how to play, Hermione chose
      scissors and Neville (not really grasping the concept) picked rock.
      Hermione, over-thinking this as usual, decided that Neville
      wouldn't pick rock twice in a row and so picked scissors again.
      Unfortunately, Neville did indeed elect to go with rock and she was
      sent back to go deal with Ron and Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Even though I won, Hermione gets the better deal," Neville
      grumbled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh cheer up, it'll be fun," Harry told Neville, pouring half of
      the bottle into his hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fun? Fun? Facing down an evil teacher is your idea of fun?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yep," Harry nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione's right, you do have problems."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry beamed before downing the rest of the bottle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Review Please!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
