<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Oh God Not Again pt1 - Oh God Not Again! Chapter 9, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Oh God Not Again pt1"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s9" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 9</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: I do not own Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: This chapter isn't really funny, but then again, they are
      facing Voldemort for the first time and it isn't just Harry. I
      think it turned out okay anyway, though.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait…what?" Neville blurted upon crossing the fire. "It really
      was Quirrell? Damn, now I owe the Weasley Twins money."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You were betting on who was out to kill me?" Harry asked.
      "Isn't that a bit…morbid?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, like you're one to talk. You bring up your 'facial
      disfigurement' as you call it every chance you get," Neville
      pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "Yeah, well everyone seems to love talking about
      it, so I figure I was doing them a favor. And at least the Weasley
      Twins had faith in me!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before Neville could answer, Quirrell spoke. "I wondered whether
      I'd be meeting you here, Potter. I must say, I didn't expect to see
      Longbottom, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked confused. "Why were you wondering whether you'd see
      me? I'm bloody eleven; I really should have more sense than to go
      after a fully-trained wizard who wants to kill me armed only with
      some of my first-year classmates." Although if he were really
      eleven, it probably wouldn't have occurred to him to force an adult
      to listen after getting the brush-off from McGonagall. God knows it
      hadn't last time. He really should have been more specific about
      WHY he thought the Stone was in danger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gee, I don't know," Quirrell said sarcastically. "Could it be
      the fact that every time I face away from you, you insist that your
      scar is on fire?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry opened his mouth to answer and then abruptly closed it
      again. "Fair point," he conceded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I must say, I didn't honestly expect you to figure it out
      considering Severus seems so much the type. I mean, who in their
      right mind would suspect <em class="calibre8">me</em>, p-p-poor st-stuttering
      P-Professor Quirrell when that overgrown bat was swooping
      around."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, Harry? I believe the question was 'who in their right
      mind'," Neville reminded him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, right. But maybe I wouldn't have figured it out if you
      didn't have bloody Tom Riddle on the back of your head."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was news to all present. Neville had no idea what Harry was
      talking about in the slightest, Quirrell had no idea who Tom Riddle
      was, and Tom Riddle had no idea how Harry knew that that was his
      real name and not Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell evidently decided not to ask and snapped his fingers,
      tying both Neville and Harry up. Harry cursed himself for
      forgetting about that and focused on trying to remove the ropes
      without his wand. He could do it if he had enough time, but he'd
      need to concentrate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the meantime, Quirrell took the opportunity to mutter to
      himself about how to find the stone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Suddenly, Voldemort said, "Use the boy…use the boy…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville started. "Would that be Tom Riddle?" he whispered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry merely nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell rounded on Harry. "Yes – Potter – come here." He undid
      the ropes surrounding Harry and bade him to look in the mirror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Unlike the last time when Harry had thought the Stone would be
      safer in his pocket than in the enchanted mirror that Quirrell
      couldn't figure out and was frustrated and desperate enough to rely
      on a child to get it, Harry didn't actually want the stone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well?" Quirrell asked impatiently. "What do you see?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see my family," Harry paused. "Again. Seriously, people, this
      isn't going to change so stop asking."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't see the stone?" Quirrell asked, disappointed and a
      little skeptical.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why would I want the Stone?" Harry challenged. "It's seems safe
      enough where it is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Harry began to discretely inch away from Quirrell, Voldemort
      spoke again. "The other boy has it…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry froze. "Dammit!" He really should have mentioned that
      looking in the mirror was a bad idea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell started towards Neville, who, for his part, looked
      terrified.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let me speak to them…face to face…" Voldemort decided.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While Quirrell was making his cursory protest and doing what
      Voldemort wanted anyway, Harry wandlessly and silently managed to
      free Neville.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah!" Neville yelped, at seeing the face of Voldemort for the
      first time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was calmer. He knew that he could handle Voldemort as he
      was now, he just wasn't sure about Neville.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry Potter and Neville Longbottom. How ironic that it should
      be the two of you standing here together to face me. Ironic, yet
      fitting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tom Riddle. I'm fairly certain you're a pedophile."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville nearly choked. He didn't quite know who this was, but he
      had a nagging feeling that he should.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You <em class="calibre8">dare</em>…" Voldemort began angrily, although whether
      he was more upset by the use of his real name or by Harry's
      accusation, it was hard to say.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, I do, let's just skip the part where you're offended I
      know your name get on with it, shall we?" Harry suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort was silent for a moment. Then he said, "There was a
      prophecy, you know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry tensed. What was Voldemort trying to do here? He hadn't
      said anything of the sort when Harry had first met him before. Was
      it because of Neville's presence?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The prophecy told me that there would be a boy born at the end
      of July whose parents had defied me three times who would stop me.
      That could have applied to either of you. I chose to attack Harry
      here and he did indeed stop me. Temporarily. Prophecy fulfilled. So
      you see, there really is no reason for me to kill you, or your
      friend for that matter, Neville. Just give me the Stone in your
      pocket and you have my word that I shall not harm either of
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The word of a liar and a murderer," Harry snapped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Y-You," Neville swallowed hard. "You destroyed my parents'
      minds!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That wasn't me, Neville, that happened after I was gone.
      Bellatrix Lestrange, always one of my most faithful
      if…<em class="calibre8">misguided</em> followers, thought that your parents, as
      prominent Aurors and widely known to be close to that puppet-master
      Dumbledore, would know what had happened. I do not condone their
      actions and I will make them suffer for taking your parents from
      you, Neville. Just say the word, give me the stone and your parents
      will be avenged."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville was shaking uncontrollably now. "Y-You could have just
      as easily attacked me and killed MY parents."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I didn't," Voldemort's voice was soft, persuasive. "I went
      after Harry because I didn't want to spill any Pureblood blood
      unnecessarily in case I chose wrong. Noble Pureblood children such
      as yourself are the future, dear Neville. Driving your parents into
      insanity was such a waste; they were a fine witch and wizard. Once
      I'm restored, I will rectify every case of worthy Purebloods such
      as your parents losing everything but their life. I can give you
      back your parents. <em class="calibre8">Just give me the stone</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville was quiet for a long moment. "N-No…I…No."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before Voldemort could process Neville's refusal, Harry seized
      the opportunity and leapt at Quirrell, pressing his hands to the
      man's face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The pain in Harry's scar was so intense that Harry couldn't see.
      He knew he should probably have interceded before now, but,
      somewhat like Dumbledore, he wanted to give Neville an opportunity
      to deal face Voldemort and figured that refusing to give in to
      Voldemort even when he was promising everything would do wonders
      for Neville's still-struggling self-esteem.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just as Harry was about to pass out, he heard "Reducto!" and
      Quirrell went still.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked up and saw Neville, eyes wide, lower his wand.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh Harry! Neville!" Hermione cried the minute they exited the
      corridor. For lack of any better ideas, they had simply rode
      Harry's broom up through the trapdoor. She immediately hugged them
      both.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, Hermione," Harry said weakly. "Did you find Professor
      Dumbledore?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed she did," Dumbledore spoke up from behind Harry. How did
      he-? It was best not to ask. "Now, I'm sure you have many questions
      for me and I know I have a few for you, but first why don't we get
      you all to the Hospital Wing?"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">When Madame Pomfrey was done tending to them and Ron and
      Hermione sent on their way, Dumbledore returned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You should probably give Professor Dumbledore the Philosopher's
      Stone," Harry started things off by suggesting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville's eyes widened. "Oh right! I had completely forgotten
      about that…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed," Dumbledore's eyes twinkled. "You must have had a lot
      of excitement down there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry snorted. "Well, that's one word for it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I killed Professor Quirrell." Silence followed that declaration
      and Neville just stared down at his hospital bed, clutching at the
      sheets. He hadn't been discharged because he hadn't stopped shaking
      once they reached the Hospital Wing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What happened?" Dumbledore's tone was grave.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sensing Neville probably didn't want to talk about it, Harry
      took a deep breath and began. "Quirrell was after the Stone. Ron
      was taken by the Queen in the Chess match we were playing and there
      was only enough of the potion to get us through the flames to see
      Quirrell for two people, so Hermione went back to Ron. The Mirror
      of Erised was there and Quirrell tried to use me to get the Stone,
      but I didn't really want it and so Neville, who apparently wanted
      to get but not use the Stone, managed to get it instead. This
      caused Quirrell to unwrap his turban and reveal that he had
      Voldemort on the back of his head. Voldemort…he promised Neville
      his parents back if he just handed over the Stone. Neville said no.
      Voldemort was going to attack Neville so I used my
      mother's-sacrifice-magical-love-protection to burn Quirrell's face
      and right when I was about to collapse from magical exhaustion,
      Neville fired a Reducto at him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I killed him," Neville said again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quirrell was already dead," Dumbledore told him gently. "He was
      dead the minute he allowed Voldemort to take up residence in his
      body. He would have died anyway the minute Voldemort left him,
      which he would have done tonight, regardless of if he took the
      Stone from you and crafted himself a new body or if he failed and
      decided that poor Quirinus had outlived his usefulness."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So it's not my fault?" Neville sounded dubious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, it's not," Harry agreed. He knew that it would take awhile
      for it to truly sink in and he wished that it hadn't had to happen
      this way, but there was nothing he could do about that now. He
      honestly hadn't expected Neville to attack Quirrell while he was
      burning him with his touch. "So, what's going to happen to the
      Stone now?" Harry asked, to change the subject onto less depressing
      matters.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore then proceeded to explain how the Flamel's were all
      set to die now, but it was okay because they were really old
      anyway. So, maybe it was only <em class="calibre8">slightly</em> less
      depressing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you have any more questions?" Dumbledore asked genially.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, Voldemort <strong class="calibre9">did</strong> say one interesting thing
      I was hoping you could explain," Harry said innocently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore nodded, indicating that he should continue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Apparently there was some sort of a prophecy about Neville and
      I that caused him to come after me," Harry said slowly, enjoying
      the sight of all the color draining out of Dumbledore's face.
      "Something about me being the only one to stop him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I…did not intend for you to find out like this," Dumbledore
      said at last, sighing. "And especially not at such a young age. I
      had hoped…But alas, what's done is done, I suppose, and there is no
      use lamenting the fact. I wish I had a Pensieve with me, but I do
      not so I will to simply tell you the Prophecy: The one with the
      power to vanquish the Dark Lord approaches…Born to those who have
      thrice defied him, born as the seventh month dies…And the Dark Lord
      will mark him as his equal, but he will have power the Dark Lord
      knows not…And either must die at the had of the other for neither
      can live while the other survives."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And that could mean either me or Harry?" Neville asked, looking
      faint.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alas, no, the Prophecy is about Harry. When Voldemort chose to
      go after Harry and gave him his scar, he marked him and made the
      Prophecy about him," Dumbledore replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville tried not to look too relieved as he realized it would
      not probably be up to Harry to stop Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, sir? You realize that I'm eleven, right? And not really the
      most responsible person around? And you really shouldn't expect me
      to be the only one who can kill him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wouldn't dream of expecting anything from you for a few years
      yet. And, in fact, I cannot <em class="calibre8">make</em> you do anything. On the
      other hand, by the time that you come face to face with Voldemort
      for the last time, knowing he wants to kill you, knowing he has
      killed or tried to kill countless others, you may very well decide
      that killing him would be for the best. Certainly if he regains a
      body and does not stop hunting you, chances are very good that
      either of you will die at the hand of the other."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry walked to the leaving feast with a heavy heart. Sure
      Hagrid had gotten him a scrapbook filled with pictures of his
      parents, he'd spent all night at the impromptu 'We're Graduating'
      Party the Seventh Years threw (at Tonks' insistence as he didn't
      really know the other Seventh Years very well), and he'd get to see
      Ginny again soon. On the other hand, Gryffindor had indeed won the
      House Cup this year, despite his best efforts to the contrary.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry tried his best to appear depressed when Dumbledore
      announced that Gryffindor was in the lead. On the bright side, this
      meant no need for last second points.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Recent events must be taken into account," Dumbledore
      continued. Harry groaned. Of course they must. Dumbledore awarded
      Ron fifty points for the 'best-played game of chess Hogwarts had
      ever seen' despite the fact that there was really no objective way
      to measure something like that, Hermione fifty points for not
      poisoning herself or her classmates, Neville fifty points for
      lighting a rare and valuable plant on fire, and Harry got sixty
      points for not telling a responsible adult about Quirrell's attempt
      to steal the stone and for endangering several of his classmates.
      Of course, Dumbledore might have phrased it slightly differently,
      but it was still blatant favoritism.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry started banging his head on the table and didn't stop
      until Percy got so annoyed he threatened to hex him. It really
      wouldn't do to get Percy in the habit of doing that as his refusal
      to do so was really the only reason why Harry was able to do some
      of his more public after-hours activities.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The celebration at the Gryffindor table over finally being the
      best sycophantic House got so annoying that halfway through the
      feast Harry got up and went to go sit by the Slytherins. He spent
      the rest of the feast commiserating with them and complaining about
      the blatant favoritism. Dumbledore, who couldn't hear what he was
      saying, smiled broadly at Harry's mature attitude of reaching out
      across House lines.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">As the Hogwarts Express was pulling into the station, Harry was
      honestly glad that the train ride was over, for the first time in
      his life. He, Ron, Hermione, and Neville had just sat back and let
      all of Harry's various acquaintances and Neville's Herbology
      friends come visit them throughout the train ride. Unfortunately,
      this had not stopped Hermione from pestering Harry about his exam
      results. So he made the highest first year grades since Dumbledore
      and was now being hailed as a prodigy (to both of their
      annoyances), it was really just the twelve year age advantage.
      After all, being and adult who had to sit through boring meetings
      and hold press conferences and regularly petition the Wizengamot
      meant that he officially had an attention span sufficient enough to
      pay attention in Binn's class so he even did well in History of
      Magic despite his blatant refusal to study. And that was why
      Hermione was convinced he either cheated or was holding back his
      brilliance all this time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You must come and stay this summer," said Ron. "All of you-I'll
      send you an owl. Oh, and by all I meant 'everyone but Malfoy and
      his goons'." Which just left Harry, Hermione, and Neville.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Like I would even want to," Draco shot back. "My bedrooms
      bigger than your whole house!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rolled his eyes. "Draco, remember what we talking about
      how it's not nice to stalk your father's political rivals? And that
      reminds me: This might be a weird question, but do you have a House
      Elf named Dobby?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco nodded. "Now who's stalking who?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, you are. You're stalking Ron. We just talked about this.
      But anyway, the reason I asked is because you remember how my scar
      told me that Quirrell was out to kill me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco nodded uncertainly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, it also told me that you have a House Elf named Dobby who
      will steal all of my mail this summer, so if you could order him to
      leave my mail alone, that'd be great."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco shrugged. "Why not?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once they got off the train and lined up to go through the gates
      in small groups, Tonks came up to him, hair bubble-gum pink. "So I
      got accepted into the Auror Academy," she said. "And this is my
      celebratory hairstyle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you're going to keep it like that?" Harry asked, amused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yep. I'm going to keep it like this every time I'm not
      disguising myself for as long as I'm over the moon about this. I
      would have told you earlier, of course, but I was too busy hiding
      from Percy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hiding from Percy? Why? He's like, the least threatening person
      ever," Harry pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know, I know, but he wanted to hear me go over NEWTS for the
      third time and ask how I thought he did during OWLS by regaling me
      with the fascinating tale of every little answer he put or spell he
      cast," Tonks complained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sounds like Hermione," Ron said bluntly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So isn't there ANYTHING I can do to get you to let me call you
      Nympha-I mean, you're first name," Harry hastily amended as Tonks
      glared at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope, sorry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh come on! I'll give you my firstborn!" Harry promised.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks laughed. "Aren't you a little young to be thinking about
      that kind of thing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. By all estimates, he should be a dad by now. If
      it was a boy they'd name him James Sirius and if it was a girl
      they'd go with Lily Luna.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Keep in touch, won't you?" Harry asked her as she was about to
      head through the barrier.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, you couldn't get rid of me if you tried," she told him as
      she disappeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Harry and Ron went through, followed by Hermione and
      Neville, Harry heard quite a bit of gossip surrounding Draco Malfoy
      and the question Harry threw on his parentage at the beginning of
      the year. He snorted; he'd completely forgotten about that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There he is, Mum, there he is, look!" Ginny exclaimed, jumping
      up and down, the minute she saw Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hi, Ginny, right?" Harry smiled at her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Y-yes," she said, looking anywhere but at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're going to Hogwarts next year, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She merely nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll see you there, then. Oh, and Mrs. Weasley, I wanted to
      thank you for your very thoughtful Christmas present."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, it was nothing, dear," she assured him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I'd better go," Harry said. "I think my Uncle might still
      be mad at me…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Since September?" Mrs. Weasley asked, shocked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, he did send me death threats at Christmas," Harry told
      her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh my…"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">When Harry arrived at home, he saw a large black dog lying on
      the Dursley's front lawn as if waiting for him. Harry quickly
      stashed his stuff in his room (he might have threatened to turn
      Uncle Vernon blue if he tried to lock his school things away but
      did promise not to use any magic) and ran out to meet him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey boy," he greeted. "You look like you could use a walk. I'm
      going to the park. Come with me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The dog just cocked its head like it didn't understand, but
      consented to follow Harry. Once he reached the park–which was
      thankfully deserted– he sat down on one of the swings and looked
      straight at the dog.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, well, Sirius. It's been awhile."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Review Please!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
