<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>35. Alt Chapters 109-110 - Wayback Machine</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="35. Alt Chapters 109-110"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 110: Legacy of The Troll</h1>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione screamed and floundered about - then stopped. “Harry, where’s the troll? Where are we? We have to warn everyone...Why are you smiling?”</p><p class="calibre6">

“You’re safe. The troll's dead. You were dead too, but now you’re not. I had to snap my fingers extra hard." His voice sounded strange. She frowned, “Seriously Harry, I need to know what’s going on.” She looked down at her chest. It felt like it'd just been bitten, but there wasn't any actual pain or damage. It was an odd sensation. Had she been false memory charmed?</p><p class="calibre6">

“I know, I'm sorry. I just don't know what I can tell you right now. We're safe. I’ll explain more about what's going on later.” Harry began jogging and continued while Hermione followed, “We have to get to Dumbledore. Also, umm, within a month we have to get Tracy Davis elected the Minister of Magic. Well, actually, I guess the right phrase is Ministerin of Magic.”</p><p class="calibre6">

No, this is unacceptable. Her memory had no sense of continuity and nothing made sense. The only things she knew for sure were that memory charms should be unforgivable and that she really hated trolls.</p>
    </div>
  

</body></html>
