<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Sirius Black and the Prisoners Dilemma - Sirius Black and the Prisoner's Dilemma Chapter 4: Foreground and Background, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Sirius Black and the Prisoners Dilemma"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s4" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 4: Foreground and Background</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">House elf magics appear to be based on a mechanism similar
      to that of accidental magic. Both of them override almost all
      warding systems, and both allow for power greater than that of many
      basic spells. Additionally, the possible spell effects available to
      either system are similar. However, the magic of house elves can be
      controlled by the wielder and directed.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Polyjuicing a house elf into a human form will succeed. The
      house elf will keep their magical ability and compulsions, and
      clothes in this form will still free the elf. One result discovered
      by testing indicates that among the magics that house elves can
      cast is a permanency effect which will extend the duration of a
      potion or effect for as long as the 'spell' is held.
      Experimentation on accidental magic has yet to confirm the presence
      of such an effect within the range of possibility, but it cannot
      yet be ruled out. Further experimentation in this area has been
      postponed until holding mechanisms for transformed elves can be
      devised. For further information, consult Appendix B, section C:
      Operation Epsilon.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Providing a wand to a house elf will greatly increase the
      power of their cantrips and decrease the cooldown time of their
      teleportations. However, any attempt to cast spells will fail and
      cause a magical backlash on the elf while activating their
      punishment compulsions. This seems to be an artifact of the spells
      laid on the elves. Further experimentation into this area has been
      discontinued pending the discovery of ways to override punishment
      compulsions.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">House elves can be commanded to follow anything that a human
      mind can understand. House elves can understand commands from their
      master in any language. House elves can transmit commands from
      their master to any other elves that master controls provided they
      are so ordered. Further experimentation on this area has been
      postponed due to Protocol V.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">-Research log, Appendix A: Postponed Experiments, Section
      III: Magical Creatures, Subsection I: House Elves(Tower of
      Hogwarts, May 1993)</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">XxX</p>
      <p class="calibre6">September 1, 1993(Hogwarts opening day), 9 am</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Colin strode through the platform, grinning as the magical
      warmth of the station replaced the cold outside. He was back. As he
      walked toward the train, Ginny came up alongside him, grinning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Colin!" She stood before him, smiling happily. She opened her
      mouth to say something, hesitated, then surprised him with a tight
      hug. Taking a step back, she blushed and picked at the hem of her
      sleeve. "It's nice to see you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Colin's eyes widened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Y-you too," he stammered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um...How was your summer?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His eyes gleamed and he smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's been excellent! I've found out so much about Sapespeck,
      and a few nights back I managed to get the network up and running-"
      He stopped talking as though he was punched in the throat, suddenly
      aware of what else had happened that night. Could he tell her? What
      would he even say? 'I think I might have become a werewolf and
      wiped my own memory?'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really? That's amazing!" She said. Ginny tucked a strand of
      loose ginger hair behind her ear and smiled brightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her smile inspired him to try to explain what had happened.
      After all, if anybody would understand loss of memories, she would,
      right?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, Ginny, something happened to me a few nights ago. When I
      was working on Sapespeck, I was attacked, and..." He fell silent,
      unsure how to continue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her eyes widened. "What?!" She whispered. Ginny glanced around
      them, then took a step closer. "Are you ok? What happened?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right after I finished my work on the 25th, I felt this massive
      pain in my head." He pointed to the front of his skull. "It felt
      like someone was cutting away with a knife at my...at my me. Ever
      since then, I've been having these horrific dreams every night,
      dreams that I'm not myself, that I'm lying there unconscious in
      front of me...this isn't making any sense to you, is it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her face darkened, becoming unsettlingly austere. "Colin, that
      sounds really serious. I... You need to talk to someone. What
      you're describing? Those are symptoms of possession. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He froze, paling rapidly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"P-possession? Are you sure? But I didn't touch anything magical
      besides my wand, and nothing strange has happened to me during my
      dreams. The only odd thing going on is..." His eyes widened. "I've
      been missing memories."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny shook her head. "I'm not an expert on how possession
      works…" Her expression grew colder, "just how it feels. And if
      you've been missing memories, then it's definitely a lot bigger
      than nightmares."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know. As soon as the feast ends, I'm heading to Madam
      Pomfrey."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pomfrey?! Go to Professor Mcgonagall! Or Slughorn!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And tell them what, exactly?" Colin snapped. "That I'm having
      dreams and my head hurts? Look, I'm going to go to Pomfrey first
      and see what she says and then, if she actually thinks there's
      something dangerous, then I'll tell the Headmistress."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She looked sceptical, but shrugged. "Fine, but let me know, ok?
      And if you ever need anything..." She absently raised a hand to the
      silver crucifix charm hanging delicately by her neck.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Colin's wand flicked through two complex motions and he grinned
      as a green mark appeared in the air near her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">If I need ssomething, all I musst do is whissper."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She smiled. "You got it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The train's harsh whistle suddenly sounded, startling the
      two.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry, but I'm not going to be able to sit with you on the
      train," Colin said sheepishly. "Draco wants me to report in.
      Something about the summer research. You understand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny nodded. "No worries. I'll see you at the banquet?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"See you then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">XxX</p>
      <p class="calibre6">September 1, 1993, 12 pm</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort pulled back from his worktable, hands flicking in
      quick motions and extinguishing a handful of golden sparks. He
      almost had the spell that time, if it hadn't been for a burst of
      emotion from the other side of the bond. If he had had a few more
      seconds...he laughed sharply. Lack of his ritual seals would just
      make the whole process more fun. Anyway, his concentration was
      starting to flicker. A break was warranted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a quick meal, he returned to his worktable and closed his
      eyes briefly before quietly speaking a word from a language no
      modern lexicographer would recognize, calling up a faint yellow
      mist. As he watched, the mist organized itself into a series of
      hundreds of small interlocking circles, two of which faintly
      pulsed. With another word, the darkened circles vanished and the
      two glowing circles expanded to cover the entire table. He peered
      closer at the circles and curled his index finger. The yellow
      vanished to reveal hundreds of interlocking black words which
      seemed to be borrowed from every written language. With a tsk, he
      pulled out a line of connected characters from a section written
      mostly in kanji and read them over carefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hyōmen ni yotte, kokoro to kokoro no setsuzoku...Ah." He
      sighed. Even after 9 years of perfecting the ritual, he still
      managed to make the most idiotic of grammar errors. Really, it
      reflected badly on him. Anyway, the change was reasonably simple,
      all it would take was a few minor edits to the ritual. His wand
      flicked a few times, spinning out new kanji to replace the old
      before reading over his new handiwork.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Kokoro to kokoro no setsuzoku, hitsuyōna toki ni yowai o miru
      koto o kanō ni suru kyōryokuna."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That should solve the pesky problem he had had two years ago
      with reading the child's emotions and thoughts. With another flick
      of his wand, the characters were covered by the yellow circles
      again. With another flick, the bright circles rejoined the dark
      ones. A moment later, Voldemort raised his wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aldaketak sartzea etenik gabe eta egonkortasuna zaintzeko."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He would have preferred not to speak aloud for magic of any
      sort, but ritual magic of this sort was dangerous enough to require
      his full concentration and any help the mechanisms of his superiors
      could give him. Anyway, his wards would prevent any sort of magical
      scrying and anyone who did look in would merely see an old woman
      muttering in Basque to herself. A totally normal activity for
      someone with Spanish ancestry, like Mrs. Babbage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the spell took effect, both circles glowed and he felt a
      slight pull at his magic. A moment later, he felt a presence at the
      back of his mind. When he pushed on the presence, it yielded, and
      he fell through to an entirely different mind. After catching just
      a few snatches of thought, he grinned and sent himself back through
      to his own mind. Out of all the justifications he gave for being a
      Dark Lord, he couldn't deny that the sheer thrill of a plan coming
      together was at the top of the list. Harry James
      Potter-Evans-Verres would soon know the dangers of trying to
      eliminate someone of his caliber.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A/N: So, as you can probably tell, the magic system is going to
      be a lot more fleshed out here. A <em class="calibre7">lot</em> more. Those who wish
      to translate the ritual segments and the Basque are welcome to. It
      will come back in the plot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Meanwhile, I have to give serious thanks to kittykatrosetta for
      her aid with the Ginny segments of the chapter. The dialogue would
      have been far worse without her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The next chapter, Re-entry, should be out before the 18th of
      October, and hopefully by the 11th.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Please review!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
