<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Sirius Black and the Prisoners Dilemma - Sirius Black and the Prisoner's Dilemma Chapter 5: Re-entry, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Sirius Black and the Prisoners Dilemma"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s5" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 5: Re-entry</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">One of the flaws of even the most competent bureaucracies
      when not all information is automatically logged is that, at some
      point, a lower level employee has to decide whether to pass
      information up the chain to their superiors. Normally, this is
      good; it keeps the higher-ups from becoming overwhelmed by
      unnecessary information. However, at times, it means crucial pieces
      of the puzzle fall through the cracks. On September 1st, 1993,
      Professor Remus J. Lupin performed the standard magical
      nullification spell to deal with an unfortunate buildup of magical
      energy in one of the compartments on the Hogwarts Express, caused
      by what, for all intents and purposes, appeared to be an outburst
      of accidental magic from one of the second years. A spell so
      standard, in fact, that he had almost forgotten about the entire
      incident a few months later.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Approximately 10 hours later, Professor Horace Slughorn used
      the same spell to nullify a Slytherin first year's accidental
      magic. 2 hours later, the event faded into the back of his mind.
      Within those 12 hours, Hogwarts' best chance to prevent the events
      of the next year had vanished.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">This illustrates the importance of efficient information
      systems logs in a magical security system. Events such as that of
      1993 would not have happened under proper supervision.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">-Auror Handbook, Edition 49(Published 1999), Chapter IV:
      Effective Security Systems</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">XxX</p>
      <p class="calibre6">September 1st, 1993, 12 pm</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Phoenix's egg."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wall on the side of the Headmistress's office slid open, and
      Harry strode through the passageway, shaking his head to clear the
      reverberations of the magical passphrase. Once he reached the
      inside room, he turned to the right wall, stepped forward three
      steps, and pointed his wand at the passageway. Normally, he
      wouldn't activate Dumbledore's secondary protection magicks when he
      might need to call Hermione for help, but these experiments were
      far from a normal day's.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Phoenix reborn."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">An orange haze shot out of a sigil painted on the doorpost of
      the passageway, sealing the entire chambers in a magical stasis
      field and preventing anything, physical or magical, from entering
      or leaving the room unless it was specially keyed into the spell. A
      few seconds later, the field glowed a soft blue and began to
      magically ventilate the room by switching air inside the field with
      air outside it. Harry dearly wanted to know how much power that
      kind of spell took and if it was feasible for a third year to
      learn, but the unbreakable vow had stopped any sort of research
      into that area of magic. Quite sensibly, to be fair, as while he
      didn't know the potential consequences of messing up a time-space
      stasis spell, he imagined the results would be...catastrophic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry pulled a small lump of steel from his pocket and set it
      down next to a notebook and dictation quill left there from the
      last experiment. He concentrated on visualizing a long glass tube,
      and touched his wand to the lump. A few seconds later, the steel
      was transfigured. Step one, complete.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Next, he visualized a loop of thread and transfigured the glass
      into the thread. A prior series of experiments involving magical
      items and enchanting transfigured objects had confirmed that, in
      some sense, magic recognized a transfigured item as two things: the
      item it currently was, and the item that it was connected to by use
      of some magic and visualization to connect Source and Form. It was
      time to test one of the corollaries of that hypothesis. With a
      conscious mental effort, Harry cut off the magical connection
      between Object:'Steel Lump' and Form: 'Glass cylinder', careful to
      sustain the transfiguration keeping the thread from morphing back
      into the cylinder. The thread seemed to shimmer once or twice as he
      broke the connection, and once took on a slightly glassy sheen, but
      eventually returned to normal.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once the thread seemed to have stabilized, Harry broke the
      transfiguration on the thread. It abruptly flickered back into a
      glass tube, but something seemed...strange about it. He stepped
      over to the cylinder and gingerly picked it up, but it remained
      stable, weighing approximately the right amount. He turned back to
      the notebook and began speaking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Test 204a result: Transfiguration by connection breaking
      appears to be permanent, at least physically. Something appears off
      about the result. Further examination required."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He faced the cylinder again and raised his wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Crystferrium!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The spell extended outwards, and Harry could feel his magic take
      hold of the glass, beginning to reshape it into steel, when his
      magic abruptly failed. His eyes widened and he flicked his wand
      again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Locomotor Crystal!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Again, the magic extended outwards and seemed to partially catch
      on the cylinder before failing. Harry's eyes widened. What the hell
      was going on? There was no reason that the glass shouldn't be
      responding, unless... He grinned, then laughed sharply. His wand
      went up again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Locomotor Ferrous!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The cylinder twitched once or twice, then slowly rose into the
      air. Harry's jaw dropped and he started chuckling. It seemed that
      this method, while time consuming, certainly had...fun effects. He
      definitely needed to record this result.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Test 204b result: Transfiguration by connection breaking
      preserves the magical identification of an object while modifying
      its physical properties. This physical modification appears to be
      permanent. Further research is required."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He turned back to the cylinder, but the stasis field flashed
      once, warning him of an approaching visitor. He turned back to the
      front door and saw Hermione waiting outside the field, tapping her
      foot impatiently, her arms folded over her chest. Harry shrugged
      apologetically then twisted his wand slightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Phoenix's flight!"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The field flashed once and Hermione appeared on the other side,
      orange light cascading off of her as the field accepted her in. She
      brushed off a few lingering sparks, body moving gracefully. Harry's
      eyes widened slightly, mind momentarily taken from research by the
      realization that Hermione had indeed gone a ways through
      puberty.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She noticed his slightly widened eyes and grinned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"While I can't say this isn't nice for my self esteem, I did
      want to see what you were researching. It's not like you to vanish
      so suddenly this close to the new year." A bit of concern tinged
      her voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He nodded and turned slightly to face the cylinder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Accio cylinder!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He caught the cylinder deftly. A moment later, he turned back to
      Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Try summoning this glass cylinder from me by identifying it by
      its element, if you would. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She nodded confusedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ok, though I don't see why that matters...Accio glass!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It seemed to twitch slightly, almost invisibly, but failed to
      move otherwise. Her eyes widened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You developed an anti-summoning charm?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grinned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, this goes a good deal deeper than <em class="calibre7">that</em>. Try to use
      a glass-targeting spell, if you would."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her eyes widened and she flicked her wrist.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Locomotor Crystal!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The cylinder failed to move. Hermione froze, processing the new
      information. There were currently two possibilities. Either, Harry
      had managed to derive multiple unknown countercharms, or...she
      gasped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You figured out how to change an object's magical
      identification, didn't you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not exactly. I figured out how to permanently change its
      physical identification while preserving its magical
      identification. Behold...Transfiguration 2.0."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">XxX</p>
      <p class="calibre6">September 1st, 1993, 5 pm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The train gradually glided to a stop and Colin quickly stepped
      off. If he wanted to make it back from Madam Pomfrey's in time for
      the Evening Feast, he'd need to hurry. Especially given whatever it
      was that had happened on the train. He wasn't even sure how to
      describe it, it just felt like the entire world outside his car had
      skipped forward a few seconds, while everyone inside the car had
      remained in the same position. Was that possession? Was Ginny
      right? As he reached the carriages, he hopped into the first one
      available. The moment he got inside, the carriage took off at a
      brisk pace, its mysterious driver seeming to sense Colin's
      agitation. He was glad about that, at least. He didn't want to have
      to talk to anybody else until he was certain he wasn't going to
      somehow be the vehicle for some Dark Lord's plans.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few minutes later, the carriage pulled up to the castle and
      Colin stepped out. As he approached the entrance, the Headmistress
      seemed to appear from thin air near him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Creevey, we have some new security procedures this year
      because of what has happened in prior years. I was going to wait
      til more students arrived, but seeing as you're a few minutes ahead
      of them I will tell you now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her wand flicked once, and a sheet of moving water blurred into
      visibility from atop the entrance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Due to the generosity of certain concerned parents and the
      ingenuity of certain of our own students, we have been able to
      procure a permanent segment of the Thief's Downfall. Any student
      entering Hogwarts from outside the grounds will be required to pass
      through the water to be granted entrance."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Colin's eyes widened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What does the waterfall do, headmistress?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her tone changed, becoming more like that of the teacher she
      once was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Thief's Downfall is an ancient magical device, created by
      wizards centuries ago. It's water removes all magical concealment,
      ends all compulsion, and breaks all illusions. Until this year, it
      was in the deepest vaults of Gringotts, protecting the possessions
      of the Noble Houses of Britain."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Colin relaxed. Even if he was possessed, this would break that
      possession. He would be himself again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, how do I do this, headmistress? Do I just walk through the
      water?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She nodded and her eyes glittered with suppressed mirth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. Though, I must say, it's not often I see a student
      incredibly eager about <em class="calibre7">removing</em> deceptions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Coling laughed sheepishly and stepped through the water. It
      parted over his shoulders, somehow still refreshing despite the
      already brisk day. Once he left the sheet fully, his body dried
      instantly. That was a nice feature. He calmly stepped forward into
      the halls, feeling calmer than he had in almost a week. He hadn't
      been possessed. Whatever these dreams and missing memories were,
      they weren't something too bad.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">XxX</p>
      <p class="calibre6">September 1st, 1993, 5:30 pm</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort looked out at the station, mentally marking down every
      student who would be important for the coming year. The third years
      had Hogsmeade visits now, which would be an ideal time to implant
      low level compulsions were it not for the Thief's Downfall.
      Instead, he'd need to be quite a bit more subtle to get around that
      problem. Thus came his newest set of projects. The research
      relating to the graveyard event he'd been able to recover from the
      Unspeakables he'd captured had certainly been useful. Without it,
      he couldn't have been certain about any of his initial moves.
      However, with it, his opening was all but trivial. His hands
      twitched three times, and a group of 6 green lights appeared in the
      air before flying off into the distance towards the castle. He felt
      his energy drain slightly as each settled into place. A moment
      later, he turned back towards his house, satisfied. It was time to
      truly begin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A/N: Have some more magic system research, I insist! The magical
      aliasing trick isn't quite as powerful as it might seem, there are
      some downsides to using it which will become apparent shortly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Please review!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
