<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>The Longest Day - The Longest Day Chapter 11: Endgame, a Harry Potter + My Little Pony Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="The Longest Day"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s11" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 11: Endgame</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The Forbidden Forest<br class="calibre4"/></em><em class="calibre7">Earlier the Previous
      Day</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My younger students," Professor Quirrell said in a loud, strong
      voice. "I know this probably seems very fearsome to some of you…
      Especially those of you that opted not to participate in our
      extracurricular activities. It is the custom of Hogwarts that
      grades are given in the second week of June, but in my case… they
      made an exception."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Defense Professor smiled his familiar dry smile and
      continued, "I know you are worried that you are not prepared for
      this exam, that my lessons have not covered this material, and I
      quite forgot to mention that it was approaching… though you should
      have known it would come in time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your full year grade depends on the outcome of this battle. As
      with life, nothing else matters if you fail the most important
      test."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Students started murmuring among themselves in hushed, worried
      whispers. Quirrell remained silent until the whisperers realized
      they were interrupting him, and hurriedly shut up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I understand that we have some visitors from another school,
      and although their purpose was never made entirely clear, it seems
      they have taken it upon themselves to become teachers of sorts:
      offering advice, smoothing over disagreements, mediating disputes,
      or in some cases…" As he spoke, he looked pointedly at Fluttershy,
      and then a gaggle of Slytherin first-years. "…Ending them
      decisively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It should be clear from the fact that I had accepted the post
      of Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher, that I enjoy my life in
      relative solitude. There are few who will truly mourn me, and none
      who depend upon me. Of course, I have seen firsthand that there are
      many who would fight far more valiantly to defend others than
      themselves. That people are far more willing to gamble with their
      own lives than with others.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"People shun the cold, dispassionate, utilitarian moral calculus
      of sacrifice, yet are willing to do so when it is <em class="calibre7">someone
      else</em> that they would protect."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I confess that it had not occurred to provide instruction on
      this matter, how to recognize it, how to overcome it, how to
      manipulate it. However, this final exam allows me to rectify that
      wrong:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You will engage in a battle. The remainder of Sunshine
      Regiment, along with those who had chosen not to participate, will
      be distributed amongst the Dragon Army and Chaos Legion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Both armies will be given <em class="calibre7">something to protect</em>, both
      literally and metaphorically. Your grade and the grade of your
      classmates will depend not only on your team's performance but on
      your ability to protect.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of our Beauxbatons visitors, only four are healthy enough to
      participate in such a task, so the four of them have been divided
      between your two armies."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He gestured towards Rainbow Dash and Applejack, "The Gryffindor
      with the questionably multi-colored hair, and the Hufflepuff with
      the out-of-place accent shall be assigned to Chaos Legion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He then looked towards Fluttershy and Pinkie Pie, "The Ravenclaw
      with the seemingly boundless enthusiasm for all things trivial,
      along with the Slytherin with an unusual proclivity for defenseless
      creatures…" He looked again at Fluttershy, "And from what I
      understand, she gets <em class="calibre7">quite</em> protective of them…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He turned back to the students. "These are your wards, your
      charges, your Protectorates. Your goal is simply to find them, and
      escort them back here to the starting point, the Sanctuary." He
      gestured to the edges of the clearing, where a translucent,
      slightly glowing blue circle on the ground surrounded them. "Within
      the bounds of this Sanctuary, no magic is to be used. If you break
      this rule, you shall forfeit the game.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you survive, and your team wins, you shall earn an
      Outstanding. Alternately, if you do <em class="calibre7">not</em> survive, and your
      team wins, you shall only earn an Acceptable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"On the other hand, if you survive but your team simply loses,
      you shall earn an Exceed Expectations. Given that death is the
      default assumed outcome for all of you, eventually, that
      assignation is not entirely inappropriate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"However, if you survive and your team has failed your
      Protectorates by allowing them to be eliminated, you shall earn a
      grade of Poor. And if you should be so unfortunate as to not
      survive while your team has failed, then you will find yourself
      with a grade of Troll.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Finally, and perhaps anticlimactically, should you not survive
      and your team simply loses without allowing your Protectorates to
      be eliminated, you shall earn a grade of Dreadful."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The students were looking amongst each other, clearly somewhat
      confused by the circuitous rules and scoring mechanism. Harry, on
      the other hand, was frowning while the professor continued, "The
      game shall end in one of two conditions: when a team's
      Protectorates crosses the bounds of the Sanctuary, or when the
      allotted time of two hours has elapsed. Both ending conditions come
      with certain consequences.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When the Protectorates enter the Sanctuary, any members of your
      own team who are not within the bounds of the Sanctuary shall
      forfeit, so as to prevent the protectorates from simply making a
      mad dash towards the Sanctuary. Similarly, any members of the
      opposing team who are within the Sanctuary when their team loses
      will forfeit, so as to discourage taking advantage of the
      protection afforded by the Sanctuary. If the two hours elapse
      without a victor, then all four Protectorates, along with anyone
      not within the bounds of the Sanctuary, shall forfeit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The confused looks on the students' faces only deepened, as did
      Harry's concentration. "The countdown shall begin shortly. But one
      final note; I have also cast the Incantation of Babel upon both
      teams to prevent communication between the teams and the
      Protectorates. Any attempt at communication will result in abject
      nonsense, so you have been warned."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a curt nod, he began to walk towards the edge of the dais,
      then added, almost as an afterthought in response to the countless
      faces staring blankly up at him. "As you all should know by this
      point, I do not repeat myself, so if you have any questions about
      the rules, then I would hope that your teammates have paid more
      attention than you."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco was pacing, almost manically. "Ok. Nobody expected this,
      this test. So there's no way Potter could have prepared for
      things."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We think," Zabini added, quite unhelpfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right. We think. Wait, what?" Draco was hardly listening to the
      input. "No. We don't think, we know. Professor Quirrell wouldn't
      give an advantage to anyone, much less Saint Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unless he came up with a bunch of alternate strategies just in
      case something like this happened." Zabini chimed in again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco considered this for a moment. "No, any strategy that he
      came up with, he would have to rehearse and plot in advance with
      other people. We would have heard something if Harry had started
      planning for a battle that was never to come. So, no, I think we're
      on a level playing field in that regard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He began pacing again, but the manic shakiness had left his
      voice and he was speaking with more confidence, "There's no shame
      in admitting that Potter is more clever. So I think he'll likely
      come up with <em class="calibre7">something</em>. But magically, we've got him beat
      in terms of pure strength. But Harry knows that, so he's not going
      to engage us on those terms."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dean Thomas piped up. "I was on Chaos Legion before the teams
      got redistributed. You're right that he's not going to engage us
      traditionally. But, I think he isn't going to engage us at
      all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, think about it. Harry always talks about the Batman code
      of ethics."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Batman. A Muggle superhero. It means, nobody dies. He doesn't
      have to save you, but he's not going to kill you. I think that's
      what it is. Every one of us he takes out, that's hurting us in the
      real world; we're losing marks off our grade. He's not going to
      want that. He's going to find a way to do it without having a
      battle at all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco's eyes widened. "Merlin's beard, you're right. They're
      going to fan out. Probably break off into squads of two, maybe
      three. He'll order them not to engage if they see us, and they'll
      scour the woods until they find the Protectorates, and then they'll
      run like hell back to the Sanctuary."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pansy raised her hand meekly, but then quickly put it down when
      she noticed multiple people staring at her. "But if they do that,
      then everyone else on their team will end up losing. At least,
      that's what I think the Professor said."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco waved this off. "Yes, that's what he said, but it's easy
      enough to develop a system of communication. Bubblers, magic
      mirrors, enchanted coins, even smoke signals. They find their
      Protectorate, they fire off the signal, then they all fall back to
      the Sanctuary."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Small squads are going to be pretty weak, easy to pick off."
      Zabini offered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right, so we need to play to our strengths. We stay together,
      sweep the forest as one unit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They'll be able to cover a lot more ground than us. They will
      find their charges before we do," Zabini argued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They might. But they don't just need to find them, they need to
      escort them safely back to the Sanctuary. Their Protectorates and
      their entire army. His troops will be spread out across the forest.
      No matter where we are, as long as we converge on the Sanctuary as
      soon as the endgame begins, we will reach it before the remainder
      of their army. Potter won't sacrifice the few to save the many.
      Batman ethics, as you say. He will wait until every last man is
      safe, and until then, he'll be vulnerable."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Zabini was nodding and didn't offer a rebuttal. Ron Weasley was
      considering this as well, "But how will we know the endgame has
      begun?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That… That is where I'm hoping someone in this army can help
      because I don't have any clue how we should do that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Crickets.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Birds chirping.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Until the soft, vaguely distant voice of Luna Lovegood cast a
      pebble into the otherwise still pond, "We look for
      Wrackspurts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wrackspurts?" Ron asked, incredulously. "What next? I suppose
      we should also look for Nargles in the mistletoe?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco spat, "Can it, Weasley. Unless you have a better idea."
      Ron said nothing, so Draco pressed the point. "Well, do you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron looked at his feet. "No, I was just saying… Wait! What if we
      just wait by the Sanctuary, wait for them to come back, and then
      ambush them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco rolled his eyes. "We want to win, not just keep Potter
      from winning. How do we expect to find our charges if we're sitting
      here on our thumbs waiting for Potter and his army?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I, uh… well…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco cut him off. "Luna, continue."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ron is right, you know," she added, not seeming to pay
      attention.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mistletoe. It's full of Nargles," she smiled and started
      twirling her hair a bit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">More crickets.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">More birds chirping.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">More silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco didn't want to interrupt whatever train of thought he
      assumed, or hoped, was running through Luna's mind, so he waited
      patiently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But, now that I think of it, they only come out when it's
      Christmas, or when love is in the air. So we don't need to worry
      about them." She nodded at Ron and then turned back to Draco. "If
      you want to see someone who's wearing an invisibility cloak, you
      don't look for them, you look for the Wrackspurts floating around
      their head. So we fill the forest with Wrackspurts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know about you, Luna, but I didn't pack my bag full of
      Wrackspurts for this battle," Ron groaned, trying to save face by
      finding a flaw in Luna's plan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco sighed and grit his teeth. "She's speaking metaphorically.
      Now. Shut. It."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna nodded, and then let out a small sound of affirmation.
      "Come to think of it, I did bring my Wrackspurt jar." She fiddled
      through her pack and pulled out what appeared to be a thoroughly
      empty glass jar, sealed with a wax and metal lid. She shook the jar
      a bit, then cooed at its contents. "But there aren't nearly enough
      of them. No, this is what I was thinking."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She hooked her wand in the air, making a delicate threading
      motion, and a thin, luminous stream of iridescent light extruded
      from the end. She guided it around the trunk of the tree, then
      continued stretching the silvery thread across a small clearing,
      and then wrapped it around another tree. She gave it a quick tug to
      test its strength, and when satisfied, she pointed her wand at the
      string and then whispered:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Xaphod Beeblebrox</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She turned to Ron. "Walk through it, you'll see."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron looked ahead with great apprehension, "It's not going to…
      it's not gonna hurt me, is it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, of course not."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron started taking a few steps towards the thread, and Luna
      spoke again, half to herself, "Although my father did say that the
      famous shapeshifter, Andre the Androgynous, used that spell to
      change his gender…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron froze, then gaped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't worry, I think he just made that up to sell Quibblers. He
      does that a lot, you know?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't say…" Ron was not entirely comforted by this
      addendum, but in absence of any other suggestions, he continued to
      step forward until he reached the silvery thread. Bracing himself,
      he walked forward, his muscles growing tenser as the line became
      more taut. Finally, when he could handle the suspense no longer, he
      took a quick step forward and the line snapped, sending a fantastic
      shower of glitter and sparks into the air, visible at least ten to
      fifteen feet above the tree line.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If we string these up throughout the forest, starting at the
      Sanctuary and working outward, they might be able to avoid breaking
      them if they were treading carefully and softly. But if they were
      making a headlong rush back to the base, they'd be bound to give
      their position away."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco was nodding, deep in thought. "So if we start by making
      our way to the Sanctuary, then slowly working our way outward… I
      think that we need to go in a spiral pattern to make sure we cover
      all side." He did a bit of mental math. "As long as we work
      quickly, we should be able to cover most of the ground of the
      battlefield within an hour, maybe an hour and a half. So one of two
      things will happen, we'll either find our charges before Potter
      does, or sparks will start shooting out from around the forest, in
      which case we make a run for it back to the Sanctuary, dispatch
      Potter's army, and continue our search."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He turned towards the rest of the army. "It seems an easy enough
      spell to learn. We have 10 minutes until the battle starts, I want
      you all to practice it. Once you've mastered it, fall into
      position, and we'll start plotting our course.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry paced, almost manically. "Draco's going to know, at
      minimum, that we don't plan to engage. So he's going to bunch up,
      try to leverage his superior firepower and superior numbers. But…
      thanks to Angela, here," he gave big thumbs up to Angela Ziegler,
      who blushed, "We have a great combination of spells that can
      temporarily pause the battle, hopefully for just long enough for
      them to listen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Malleus Descendum</em> will knock them off their feet, and
      then, what was it again? 'The Ultimate Mercy'? It will… well…
      Angela, why don't you explain it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She kicked the dirt self-consciously but addressed the crowd.
      "It casts in a wide area. Anyone who is laying on the ground,
      whether they're unconscious, petrified, sleeping, or just laying
      down… It lifts them up a bit, and it bathes them in a barrier that
      doesn't let low-level spells either in or out. It's not going to
      help much against Avada Kedavra, but it would stop a Somnium or
      even a Stupefy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded with satisfaction. "Right, and in that time, that's
      when we try to get through to them. Shout, 'Merlin says, the rules
      are flawed, we all can win.' There are ex-Chaos Legionnaires in
      there, they'll know what 'Merlin says' means. They won't know what
      the rest of it means, but it might make them pause long enough to
      listen to us.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're permitted to fight to defend yourself, but under no
      circumstances are you to shoot to kill. Trip them up, immobilize
      them, but don't put them to sleep. Our goal is to win, not make the
      other group lose. If you make contact, send a message to the group.
      If your partner falls, send up green sparks in the air so we can
      track your location. When and if you locate the charges, send a
      message to the group and immediately fall back to the Sanctuary. If
      you come under attack and have our Protectorates with you, send red
      sparks into the air, and we will instead converge on your
      location."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry exhaled. "And finally, if you successfully convince Draco
      and his army of the fact that there's a bloody stupid loophole in
      these rules and we can all get an Outstanding, then fire blue
      sparks into the air, and there will be much rejoicing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's army nodded, solemnly, and began to break into
      pairs.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come on, get a move on. I hear Draco's army in the distance!"
      Harry whispered sharply at Applejack and Rainbow Dash. Applejack,
      in turn, gave a sidelong glance to Rainbow Dash.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry waved his hand back and forth. "What are you waiting
      for?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rainbow Dash rolled her eyes, and spoke in a hoarse voice that
      sounded more like a washed up pop signer than the more feminine
      rasp of her own voice. "I hope you particularly enjoy the
      incredible crassness of the moment when we try to squeeze an extra
      syllable into the fourth line."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head in frustration. "Damnit. Forgot about the
      Incantation of Babel. I wonder how far its effects extend… Can you
      understand hand signals?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's start down the rabbit hole was interrupted by his
      companion, the wispy blonde little Hufflepuff that Applejack
      recognized as Angela Ziegler. She spoke in an authoritative voice
      that seemed to fit her, despite her diminutive frame. "Harry, are
      you ready?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked off in the other direction sharply, listening
      intently. Rainbow dash leaned in and she could hear the noise as
      well. Footfall, and lots of it. It was coming from the direction of
      the clearing opposite them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With sudden urgency in his movement, Harry charged forward.
      Angela followed a few meters behind, with a bright golden tether of
      light emanating from her wand having attached itself to Harry. She
      was whispering something to herself as she ran… "I'll enjoy the
      quiet while it lasts…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a sense of strange desperation in Harry's movement.
      His companion followed swiftly thereafter and the noise of the
      footfalls grew louder as he closed the distance to the clearing.
      Just as Harry reached the edge, a large group of students emerged,
      led by a boy with a pointed face and slick, platinum blonde
      hair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With one final effort, Harry charged forward, holding his wand
      as if it were a hammer and then shouted in his own voice,
      "<em class="calibre7">Malleus Descendum!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was propelled forward with unnatural speed, and when his
      wand connected with the ground, a shockwave was sent towards the
      group of other students. When it hit them, they were all swept off
      their feet and Angela came charging in afterward, holding her wand
      high in the air and yelled, <em class="calibre7">"Helden Sterben Nicht!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The battlefield was bathed in a blinding, golden light.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dragon Army was desperately trying to reorient itself, many of
      their members trying to fire curses that fizzled unceremoniously in
      the golden light, but realizing that it was a futile effort, they
      reserved their magic and prepared for the effects of the barrier to
      wear off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In that brief moment of calm, Harry shouted to the crowd.
      "MERLIN SAYS, THE RULES ARE FLAWED, WE ALL CAN WIN!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then both he and Angela tossed down his wands and held their
      hands up in the air in a clear gesture of surrender.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By that point, the barrier had faded away, and not sensing any
      immediate threat, the entirety of Dragon Army looked to Draco for
      direction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco's mind was racing. The Professor's rules seemed to be
      solid. There was a very good chance this was a trap, a ruse
      designed to buy time until the rest of his army could arrive. But
      their tripwires hadn't been sprung; if Chaos Legion was closing in
      on them, they were doing it slowly and methodically. So he had
      time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hands in the air. Keep your hands up. Walk away from your
      wands."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry did precisely what he was told, and the moment he felt he
      wasn't in imminent danger, the words tumbled out of his mouth as
      fast as he could think them. "Listen to me. The rules are flawed,
      there's a loophole. The game ends when the Protectorates cross the
      boundary and if everyone is in the Sanctuary and both teams
      Protectorates cross at exactly the same time, the game ends,
      everyone is alive, and we all satisfy the win condition and all we
      need to do is figure out a way to get the four of them to cross the
      boundary simultaneously but I don't really know how to do that
      since simultaneity is really just a macroscopic phenomenon and
      depends entirely on your reference frame, but Magic really doesn't
      seem to give a damn about quantum mechanics and-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry. Harry. HARRY! Shut up, I can't think." Draco was closing
      his eyes in concentration, then after a brief moment of silence,
      called out to his army. "Dragon Army, stand down!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For a brief time, the only sound was the rustle of robes as
      wands were being put away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, Harry, please explain what the hell you are on about."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gladly. But first, would you mind shooting some blue sparks in
      the air?"</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
