<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>The Longest Day - The Longest Day Chapter 15: Liberate Tutemet Ex Inferis, a Harry Potter + My Little Pony Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="The Longest Day"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s15" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 15: Liberate Tutemet Ex Inferis</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">The last chamber was illuminated in lights of soft gold, and the
      stone walls were of gentle white and faced with marble.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the center of the room stood a simple and unornamented golden
      frame, and within the frame was a portal to another
      gold-illuminated room, beyond whose door which lay another Potions
      chamber; that was what Harry's brain told him. The Mirror's
      transformation of light was so perfect that conscious thought was
      required to deduce that the room inside the frame was only a
      reflection, rather than a portal. (Though it might have been easier
      to intuit if Harry hadn't been invisible, just then.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Mirror did not touch the ground; the golden frame had no
      feet. It didn't look like it was hovering; it looked like it was
      fixed in place, more solid and more motionless than the walls
      themselves, like it was nailed to the reference frame of the
      Earth's motion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From behind, the golden frame appeared solid, showing no
      reflections, and at the Professor's request, Harry finally removed
      his invisibility cloak. Upon seeing that the Mirror stayed in
      place, the Professor breathed a sigh of relief and entered the
      chamber alongside the five witches, careful not to allow himself to
      be reflected. He examined the frame from the sides and waved his
      hand dismissively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Upon the center of the golden back had appeared a sequence of
      runes in no known alphabet, black absences of light in small lines
      and curves, arranged in a level horizontal row.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How old is this Mirror?" Harry said in almost a whisper.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nobody knows, Mr. Potter." The Defense Professor reached out
      his fingers toward the runes, a look of something like reverence on
      his face; but his fingers did not touch the gold. "But my guess is
      the same as yours, I think. It is said, in certain legends that may
      or may not be fabrications, that this Mirror reflects
      <em class="calibre7">itself</em> perfectly and therefore its existence is absolutely
      stable. So stable that the Mirror was able to survive when every
      other effect of Atlantis was undone, all its consequences severed
      from Time." The Defense Professor let his hand fall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even in the middle of everything else, Harry felt the awe, if
      that was true. The golden frame gleamed no brighter than before,
      for all the revelation; but you could imagine it going back, and
      back, into a civilization that had been made to never be... "What -
      does the Mirror <em class="calibre7">do,</em> exactly?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"An excellent question," said Professor Quirrell. "The answer is
      in the runes that are written upon the Mirror's golden frame. Read
      them to me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're not in any alphabet I recognize. They look like
      randomly oriented chicken-scratches drawn by Tolkien elves."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He tried obvious tricks like looking at the runes upside down or
      backwards, then he tried some degree of frequency analysis to see
      if it was a simple substitution cipher... but his train of thought
      was interrupted by Pinkie Pie fastidiously scrutinizing the
      letters, then declaring with confidence, "I show not your face, but
      your coherent extrapolated volition!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It clicked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was right. A chill ran down Harry's spine. As he examined
      the runes closer, he found he was able to extract meaning from them
      when previously there had been none. It still wasn't in any
      language he could recognize, but it was meaning. '<em class="calibre7">noitilov
      detalo partxe tnere hoc ruoy tu becafruoy ton wo hsi'.</em> Harry
      knew what the rune for noitilov <em class="calibre7">meant</em>. It meant noitilov.
      And the next runes said to detalo the noitilov until it reached
      partxe, then keep the part that was both tnere and hoc. And
      somehow, both Harry and the Professor believed her translation was
      right, and that belief felt like knowledge.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor stared at her in silence, the look on his face
      inscrutable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pinkie shrugged, "What, you can't read <em class="calibre7">∑∫ỹriȱŋ</em>
      Runes?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Applejack cocked an eyebrow, "Pinkie, I don't think <em class="calibre7">any</em>
      of us canread Alleria Runes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fluttershy examined the runes as well, comprehension dawning on
      her, "No, Applejack, it's '<em class="calibre7">∑∫ỹriȱŋ</em>'. Don't you remember
      when Twilight hosted that seminar on Ancient Equestrian Languages?
      We each picked one or two, you learned how to write in
      <em class="calibre7">Zebasi</em>, remember?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yeah, the farming folk! Let me guess, Pinkie, you learned
      all of them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pinkie nodded, nonchalantly, and gave an off-hand "Mm-hmm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor was ignoring the chatter, and whispering to
      himself, "Yes... Your extrapolated volition... The Mirror displays
      you with what you <em class="calibre7">actually</em> want, not with what you
      <em class="calibre7">say</em> you want." He turned his attention up towards Harry,
      "I have wandered the world and encountered many stories that are
      not often heard. Most of them seemed to me to be lies, but a few
      had the ring of history rather than storytelling. Upon a wall of
      metal in a place where no one had come for centuries, I found
      written the claim that some Atlanteans foresaw their world's end,
      and sought to forge a device of great power to avert the inevitable
      catastrophe. If that device had been completed, the story claimed,
      it would have become an absolutely stable existence that could
      withstand the channeling of unlimited magic in order to grant
      wishes. And also - this was said to be the vastly harder task - the
      device would somehow avert the inevitable catastrophes any sane
      person would expect to follow from that premise. The Mirror's most
      characteristic power is to create alternate realms of existence,
      though these realms are only as large in size as what can be seen
      within the Mirror; it is known that people and other objects can be
      stored therein. It is claimed, for example, that phoenixes came
      into our world from a realm that was evoked inside this
      Mirror."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was frowning, despite being impressed at the scope of the
      Mirror's power. Professor Quirrel began to frown at Harry's
      frowning. "What is it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's just... well... The Headmaster and I had something of a
      confrontation, an argument. And he showed me, in no uncertain
      terms, using a Phoenix, of all things, that he would be the one to
      remove the Stone from the Mirror."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I <em class="calibre7">see,</em>" said Professor Quirrell. "Oh, dear. I wish you
      had thought to mention this to me a good deal earlier. This
      eliminates an entire class of hypotheses. You see, the other great
      difficulty of the Mirror is that the rule by which it treats those
      reflected will disregard external forces, such as False Memories or
      a Confundus Charm. The Mirror reflects only those forces arising
      from within the person themselves, the states of mind they arrive
      at through their own choices; so it is said in several places.
      Dumbledore has access to some unusual power of Divination; that
      much I deduced long ago. He made too many nonsensical moves, and
      the paths by which they worked out in his favor were too
      ridiculous. So if he somehow knows that he is the one to remove the
      Stone..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, Professor?" Harry raised his hand, and then realizing how
      silly that was, put it down quickly. "About that. In his effort to
      defeat Lord Voldemort, the Headmaster read every single entry in
      the Hall of Prophecy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ringing, almost unending silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sounds boring," Rainbow Dash yawned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor did not react to this piece of information, at
      least not outwardly, and simply said, "I see," He paced around the
      perimeter of the Mirror's reflect and continued to speak. "The
      Mirror's instructions cannot be shaped to react to individual
      people. So it is not possible for Dumbledore to command this
      Mirror, 'only give the Stone to Dumbledore'. Dumbledore cannot
      state, 'Only give the Stone to one who wishes to give it to
      Nicholas Flamel'. There is in the Mirror a blindness such as
      philosophers have attributed to ideal justice; it must treat all
      who come before it by the same rule, whatever rule may be in force.
      Thus, there must be some rule for reaching the Stone's hiding-place
      which anyone can invoke. And yet, if prophecy has foretold..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Arguendo," Harry said. "We're not sure what's necessary to
      retrieve the Stone. Ignoring the bit about prophecy... by the rules
      you state, a <em class="calibre7">sufficient</em> condition should involve Albus
      Dumbledore in a state of mind where they believe that the Dark Lord
      has been defeated, that the threat is over, and that it is time to
      take out the Stone and give it back to Nicholas Flamel. We aren't
      sure which part of that person's state of mind, let's say
      Dumbledore's, will be the necessary part but under those
      conditions, Dumbledore's entire state of mind will be
      <em class="calibre7">sufficient.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Reasonable," said Professor Quirrell. "So?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The corresponding strategy," Harry said carefully, "is to mimic
      Dumbledore's state of mind under those conditions, in as much
      detail as possible, while standing in front of the mirror. And this
      state of mind must have been produced by internal forces, not
      external ones. Thereby fulfilling both the rules of the Mirror and
      Dumbledore's insight into the future of seeing himself remove the
      stone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor was nodding intently. "But how are we to get that
      without Legilimency or the Confundus Charm, both of which would
      certainly be external - ha. I <em class="calibre7">see.</em>" Professor Quirrell's
      ice-pale eyes were suddenly piercing. "You suggest that I Confund
      <em class="calibre7">myself,</em> as you cast that hex upon yourself during your
      first day in Battle Magic. So that it is an internal force and not
      an external one, a state of mind that comes about through only my
      own choices."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor stood a moment in calculation, then commanded
      Harry to put on his Cloak of Invisibility. "There is no way beneath
      the heavens that the Mirror is not meant as a trap. That is to say,
      it's a trap for Lord Voldemort. Only it can't be a trap for him
      personally. It is a trap for some generalizable quality of Lord
      Voldemort that triggers it. And so when the Confundus Charm
      expires, and the Mirror observes the deception, I believe that will
      be, in Dumbledore's mind, what you call 'sufficient' conditions to
      Voldemort's state of mind. After all, Dumbledore would only
      consider one person clever enough to bypass both the Mirror and
      what is foretold by Prophecy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Without conscious awareness, Harry was frowning hard at the
      Mirror's golden back. "What are you getting at?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or perhaps two people... Lord Voldemort, and you. If he sees
      that you were the one who retrieved the Stone, or at least that you
      had a hand in the plot, he would, I think, be very disinclined to
      spring whatever trap has been lain. So you must stand by my side,
      ready to reveal yourself at the proper moment. The rest of you," he
      gestured at the witches, "may observe from behind the Mirror."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Professor Quirrell pointed with his wand, and a shimmering
      circle appeared around where Harry was standing on the floor. This,
      Professor Quirrell said, would soon become a Greater Circle of
      Concealment, by which nothing within that circle could be heard or
      seen from the outside. Harry would not be able to make himself
      apparent to the false Dumbledore by taking off the Cloak, nor by
      shouting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Professor Quirrell's robes became black tinged with gold,
      such robes as Dumbledore might wear upon a formal occasion; and
      Professor Quirrell pointed his own wand at his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell stayed motionless for a long time, still
      holding his wand to his head. His eyes were closed in
      concentration.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then Professor Quirrell said, "<em class="calibre7">Confundus.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At once the expression of the man standing there changed; he
      blinked a few times as though confused, lowering his wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A deep weariness spread over the face Professor Quirrell had
      worn; without any visible change his eyes seemed older, the few
      lines in his face calling attention to themselves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His lips were set in a sad smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Without any hurry, the man quietly walked over to the Mirror, as
      though he had all the time in the world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He crossed into the Mirror's range of reflection without
      anything happening and stared into the surface.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What the man might be seeing there, Harry could not tell; to
      Harry, it seemed that the flat, perfect surface still reflected the
      room behind it, like a portal to another place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ariana," breathed the man. "Mother, father. And you, my
      brother, it is done."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man stood still, as if listening.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, done," the man said. "Voldemort came before this mirror
      and was trapped by Merlin's method. He is only one more sealed
      horror now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Again the listening stillness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would that I could obey you, my brother, but it is better
      this way." The man bowed his head. "He is denied his death,
      forever; that vengeance is terrible enough."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is time to give back the Philosopher's Stone," said the man
      who thought he was Dumbledore. "It must go back into Master
      Flamel's keeping, now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Listening stillness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," said the man, "Master Flamel has kept it safe these many
      years from all who would seek immortality, and I think it will be
      safest in his hands... no, Aberforth, I do think his intentions are
      good."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Destroy it?" said the man. "Maybe. I am not sure it
      <em class="calibre7">can</em> be destroyed, or Master Flamel would have done it long
      since. I think, many times, that he has regretted making it...
      Aberforth, I promised him, and we are not so ancient or so wise
      ourselves. The Philosopher's Stone must go back into the keeping of
      the one who made it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Harry's breath stopped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man was holding an irregular chunk of scarlet glass in his
      left hand, the size perhaps of Harry's thumb from fingernail to the
      first joint. The sheened surface of the scarlet glass made it seem
      wet; the appearance was of blood, suspended in time and made into a
      jagged surface.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Thank you, my brother," the man said quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then -</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, Ariana," the man said, smiling gently, "I fear I must go
      now. Be patient, my dearest, it will be soon enough that I join you
      in truth... why? Why, I am not sure why I must go... when I hold
      the Stone I am to step aside from the Mirror and wait for Master
      Flamel to contact me, but I am not sure why I need to step aside
      from the Mirror to do that..." The man sighed. "Ah, I am getting
      old. It is well this dreadful war ended when it did. I suppose
      there is no harm if I speak to you for a time, my dearest, if you
      wish it so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man who thought he was Dumbledore was mostly nodding
      patiently, sometimes replying to his dearest sister. Sometimes the
      man cast an uneasy look to one side; as if feeling a strong impulse
      to go, but suppressing that impulse with the great patience and
      politeness and concern for his sister that Professor Quirrell
      imagined Albus Dumbledore having.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw it the instant the Confundus wore off, and the man's
      expression changed, becoming again the face of Professor
      Quirrell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And in the same instant, the Mirror changed, no longer showing
      Harry the reflection of the room, showing instead the form of the
      real Albus Dumbledore, as though he were standing just behind the
      Mirror and visible through it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The real Dumbledore's face was set, and grim.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello, Tom," said Albus Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A presence invaded the air around Harry, a crawling sensation
      all over his flesh Professor Quirrell's magic passed very close to
      his skin. The Cloak of Invisibility was torn away from him, and the
      shimmering black Cloak flew away from him, to his left. Professor
      Quirrell caught it, and swiftly drew it over himself; in less than
      a second, he had pulled down the Cloak's hood over his head and
      disappeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus Dumbledore staggered, as though some essential support had
      been removed from him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry Potter," the Headmaster breathed. "<em class="calibre7">What are you doing
      here?</em> "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stared at the image of Albus Dumbledore, on whose face
      utter shock and utter dismay were warring.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Headmaster, listen, this is my fault," Harry spoke with urgent
      warning. "The Professor is dying. I can't let that happen. I know
      what you showed me, and I know this is cheating, and I know you
      probably disapprove. But the Stone exists. I understand its
      limitations, I know that it can't be used to save the world, but it
      can at least be used to help save <em class="calibre7">one life!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore was shaking his head desperately. "No," said Albus
      Dumbledore. "No, no, <em class="calibre7">NO!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Into the hand of the Albus Dumbledore flew from his sleeve his
      long, dark-grey wand, and in his other hand, as though from
      nowhere, appeared a short rod of dark stone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus Dumbledore gazed distantly spoke, "Listen to me, and know
      that <em class="calibre7">I speak not only to you</em>." During the pause, Harry
      looked nervously to his left, where he assumed the invisible
      Professor still stood. "There is a prophecy that begins, '<em class="calibre7">ON
      THE LONGEST DAY OF THE THOUSANDTH YEAR, THE STARS WILL AID IN HER
      ESCAPE, AND SHE WILL BRING ABOUT NIGHTTIME ETERNAL.'</em> This
      branch of the prophecy has already come to pass, but the prophecy
      itself continues."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The words of the prophecy that Dumbledore uttered carried with
      them an inexplicable ring of <em class="calibre7">truth</em>. The diction, the
      pacing, the very presentation made it clear which words were
      Dumbledore's own and which were those laid down by the Prophets of
      old, as plainly as if it were written text that had been
      italicized. As he spoke, the sense of power that prickled across
      Harry's skin grew increasingly oppressive and uncomfortable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It foretells that '<em class="calibre7">the Decimation will be at hand, in this
      time, wands will turn to sticks in the hands of the
      will-workers</em>' and that '<em class="calibre7">the very stars in the heavens will
      be torn asunder'</em>. And it speaks of an '<em class="calibre7">unlikely friend who
      has tempted the one marked by lightning'.</em> That friend must
      '<em class="calibre7">bring the stone through the gate thrown open by the one who is
      Bound by the Dark Lord'."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The building sense of power rose to an unbearable peak.
      Dumbeldore's form began to waver, to crumble away; he struggled to
      speak his final thoughts, which were clipped and distorted. Harry
      could only make out the words "redemption" and "magic." In his last
      moments, Dumbledore threw both the wand and the rod violently
      aside, and with that, both the sense of power and Dumbledore's form
      faded into dust.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Mirror returned to showing the ordinary reflection of a
      gold-lit room of white stone, without any trace of where Albus
      Dumbledore had been.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Sydney, Australia</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore observed the tearful reunion from a respectful
      distance; Bellatrix Black, Lesath Lestrange, and Narcissa, Lucius
      and Draco Malfoy, temporarily blind to the rest of the world,
      content in that one small moment to simply exist in each other's
      company.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The reverie was soon interrupted by the small voice of Lesath,
      whose attention was focused on Albus Dumbledore. "Is that... is
      that normal?" Dumbledore's head was lashing back and forth at an
      unnatural speed, as if shifting through dimensions, through
      time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco looked up, slowly in confusion as Dumbledore spoke to
      someone a world away. "Harry Potter," the Headmaster breathed.
      "<em class="calibre7">What are you doing here?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">A brief pause. Dumbledore was shaking his head desperately.
      "No," said Albus Dumbledore. "No, no, <em class="calibre7">NO!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus Dumbledore looked at Draco and spoke intently, "Listen to
      me, and know that <em class="calibre7">I speak not only to you</em>. There is a
      prophecy that begins, '<em class="calibre7">ON THE LONGEST DAY OF THE THOUSANDTH
      YEAR, THE STARS WILL AID IN HER ESCAPE, AND SHE WILL BRING ABOUT
      NIGHTTIME ETERNAL.'</em> This branch of the prophecy has already
      come to pass, but the prophecy itself continues."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco turned and looked nervously as Bellatrix Black. The words
      of the prophecy that Dumbledore uttered carried with them an
      inexplicable ring of <em class="calibre7">truth</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It foretells that '<em class="calibre7">the Decimation will be at hand, in this
      time, wands will turn to sticks in the hands of the
      will-workers</em>' and that '<em class="calibre7">the very stars in the heavens will
      be torn asunder'</em>. And it speaks of an '<em class="calibre7">unlikely friend who
      has tempted the one marked by lightning'.</em> That friend must
      '<em class="calibre7">bring the stone through the gate thrown open by the one who is
      Bound by the Dark Lord'."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbeldore's form began to waver, to crumble away; he struggled
      to speak his final thoughts, which were clipped and distorted.
      Draco could only make the words "redemption" and "friendship." In
      his last moments, Dumbledore threw both the wand and the rod
      violently aside, which disappeared to a place unknown, and with
      that, Dumbledore's form faded into dust</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The room was now empty, except for the extended
      Lestrange-Black-Malfoy family. The only remaining trace of Albus
      Dumbledore was a pair of artifacts that lay on the floor: An ornate
      ring set with a brilliant sapphire, engraved with a stylized set of
      goat horns, and a delicate glass necklace; a collection of five or
      six interconnected bubbles.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco immediately recognized the nature of the artifacts, they
      were tokens of Forbearance; the Transfigured and therefore
      eternally preserved bodily remains of Wizards from families who
      still respected the ancient customs, held in abeyance until the
      heirs of Atlantis could carry them to the eternal day-night. It was
      an enchantment powered by an unending chain of Magic, passed down
      from heir to heir, scion to scion, a web reinforced through the
      bonds of the interconnected families and friendships of Wizardkind.
      He had long stared at the collection of objects on the mantle of
      the Malfoy family Oblatorium, and the ring and necklace carried
      with them the unmistakable touch of that same magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No Wizard family of honor would allow such magic to fail, even
      if it had belonged to their worst enemy, even if Albus Dumbledore
      had not redeemed himself by returning Narcissa Malfoy to the world
      of the living. Draco kneeled down and quickly began to chant the
      ritual,</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Listen to the wind blow, down comes the night</em><br class="calibre4"/>
      <em class="calibre7">Running in the shadows, damn your love, damn your
      lies</em><br class="calibre4"/>
      <em class="calibre7">Break the silence, damn the dark, damn the light-</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He did not have a chance to complete the ritual, however, as the
      objects faded to dust underneath his fingers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Somehow, though, Draco did not experience a feeling of loss or
      hopelessness as he should have. Inexplicably, he felt a great sense
      of joy, of love, of reunion and hope.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The End of Time, or, The Beginning of Time</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Blackness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing but blackness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That was not strictly accurate. Black implied a color; in the
      additive sense, it implied the presence of <em class="calibre7">all</em> colors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was nothingness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing but nothingness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There wasn't <em class="calibre7">Nothing</em>. Somewhere in the distance, Albus
      Dumbledore could <em class="calibre7">hear</em> something. Despite there being no
      substance through which to carry sound waves, despite having no
      corporeal body with which to intercept those vibrations, he could
      <em class="calibre7">hear</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He could hear the distinct sound of music playing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Was that… David Bowie?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">No, not David Bowie. The music was familiar, but the voice...
      the voice was definitely not David Bowie. The voice was, in fact,
      quite off-key and pitchy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Though nothing, will keep us together... We could steal
      time, just for one day! We can be heroes, forever and ever. What
      d'you</em> - Sweet Faustian Bubbles, how long have you been
      standing there listening for, you little interloper?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The singing presence instantiated suddenly. It, like Dumbledore,
      did not have a corporeal form, but it was definitely
      <em class="calibre7">there</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was banished here moments ago, from my perspective."
      Dumbledore spoke through his non-existent vocal cords, "Though from
      yours, I suspect that I have always been here and that I will
      always be here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, posh. Why does everyone assume that Time works like that?
      You and your silly linear brains! Of course, Time has a direction
      here! How else would you be experiencing this conversation? It's
      not a straight line, of course, it looks a bit more like this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A scrawling, loopy collection of lines instantiated in the
      nothingness, which when all was said and done, looked strangely
      like a stylized, cursive signature of the name "Jeremy Bearimy". A
      dot appeared over the "i", which then expanded in size until it
      encompasses the entirety of their non-existence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And we... are here. On that dot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was no longer nothingness; it had been replaced by
      infinite <em class="calibre7">everythingness</em>. Which, as it were, was not that
      different from nothingness, at least until Dumbledore turned around
      and saw that the disembodied voice now had a tangible form:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A tall, lanky <em class="calibre7">creat</em>urethat looked like a patchwork
      amalgam of a dragon, a horse, a lion, an eagle, a goat... And that
      was just what Dumbledore was able to count.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can call me Discord. You must be Albus Dumbledore. Or, at
      least, you must <em class="calibre7">have been</em> Albus Dumbledore. But now..."
      Discord looked around in confusion. "Where are you? Oh, gosh, what
      a rude host I have been! Giving myself tangibility and leaving you
      to the depressing confines of abstraction."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Discord snapped his finger, and Dumbledore appeared, not as a
      human wizard, but as a unicorn with a slate-gray coat and a
      prodigious beard. His new form seemed strangely aged, and on his
      hindquarters, a symbol was emblazoned: a deep cobalt spiral,
      decorated with several stars in a shade of gray lighter than his
      coat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Much better," Discord crooned. "Much better than a voice
      floating in mid-air, and certainly loads better than a withered old
      man with a questionable fashion sense. I mean, squashed mushroom
      hats, really?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore observed with mild amusement, "I daresay that this
      form seems a trite more noble than the body I inhabited mere
      minutes ago."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's the spirit! Now, we won't be alone for too long, a great
      Transmigration is about to begin. I'm a quite busy pseudo-deity,
      you know? So much time, so little to do! Wait. Strike that, reverse
      it. I've got a world to create. Two worlds, really, but we'll save
      that little spoiler for a later chapter, huh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore smiled pleasantly with his new body, "I, too, have
      all the time in the world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I suppose you do. Now look, in a few thousand Bearimies,
      you're going to have to do me a really, really big favor. So I'm
      going to do YOU a favor now. I know better than anyone that
      eternity can be dreadfully <em class="calibre7">boring.</em> So..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a dramatic flourish, Discord waved a claw and the pure
      white everythingness around them split horizontally into two. He
      lifted his paw upwards, and the top half faded to a deep, midnight
      blue: the horizon and night sky of this new land. The fingers of
      his paw and claw twittered in the air as he waved them all around,
      and stars began to populate the night until there was a universe of
      constellations above them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore looked upwards. "It is quite beautiful. I had often
      told myself that I wished I had more time to simply look up to the
      heavens and stargaze. It seems you have granted that wish for
      me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Discord rolled his eyes heavily, "Really? You think the 'favor'
      I'm doing for you is giving you a sky full of stars to stare at for
      all of eternity? Try doing that for a Bearimy or two and tell me
      how interesting you think it is." Discord paced around in a huff,
      searching through the stars for something. "Sheesh, can't a
      Draconequus get a bit more credit than that? I mean, really.
      Stargazing? I'm of half a mind to chuck you back out where you came
      from!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Discord trailed off as he scanned the sky intently, and
      Dumbledore waited patiently. Finally, Discord found what he was
      looking for and stretched his arms into the sky, which obligingly
      elongated to an absurd length. After a few moments, they began to
      quickly retract and it was clear that Discord was holding a pair of
      stars.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Holding them delicately like two eggs, he cracked each against
      the ground and gently tore them apart along the resulting fracture.
      A pair of figures flowed forth from the now-torn stars: firstly, a
      grey pegasus with a messy blonde mane and a mark upon her flank in
      the shape of bubbles. And secondly, a goat with deep blue fur and
      an imposing set of curved, majestic horns. Currently, both appeared
      to be sleeping soundly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore's eyes went wide. "Are these...?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Discord smiled, genuinely. "Yes. Now listen, you have no idea
      how much work that took, so don't get any ideas about asking for
      more, at least for the time being. I've got a plan in place, in
      fact, that's what you're going to help me with eventually. But for
      now, I need to prepare the house for our other guests. Of course,
      they won't have nearly the same recollection of the past as you
      three, so do be patient with them." Before Dumbledore was able to
      ask any further questions about this cryptic warning, Discord gave
      him a brief "Ta ta!", snapped a claw, and winked out of
      existence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two sleeping figures began to slowly open their eyes,
      adjusting to their new forms in this new land. The goat was the
      first to fully rouse himself, and he stood up and looked at the
      unicorn in front of him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Albus?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aberforth..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I'll be damned. You did it, you held on to me. I thought
      you said that ritual was rubbish, for daft, fool purebloods."
      Aberforth spoke with a grin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have learned, in my old age, that there are many things that
      at first do not appear to make sense, and it is wise to not dismiss
      them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wise words, because not a damned bit of <em class="calibre7">this,</em>" he
      looked down at his goat-form. "makes sense. Although, I'm quite
      fond of this little beard here." Aberforth admired the tuft of fur
      growing beneath his goat chin for a moment but was unceremoniously
      interrupted when he was tackled by the newly-awoken pegasus, who
      gripped him in a tight hug.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aberforth! Albus!" she squealed with delight. "Look at me, I
      can fly!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ariana Dumbledore zoomed back and forth between the two of them
      in pure delight. "I knew you'd do it, Albus, I just knew you would!
      Oh, this is so exciting! Come on, let's go play!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus Dumbledore bathed in the profound sense of joy, of love,
      of reunion and hope, and patted his sister on her newfound wings.
      "Yes, Ariana. I suppose we have some time to play. I suppose we
      have all the time in the world."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
