<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>The Longest Day - The Longest Day Chapter 19: Spike, the Brave and Glorious, a Harry Potter + My Little Pony Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="The Longest Day"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s19" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 19: Spike, the Brave and Glorious</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">" 'The Limit of One Over X as X Approaches Zero Sack'. So... the
      Infin-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A giant foam finger instantiated over Spike's lips, forcibly
      preventing him from speaking, as Discord looked around
      conspiratorially.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shhh. We don't want to be using the I-Word. Or the A-Word or
      the M-Acronym. And we certainly don't want to draw any parallels
      between our protagonist and the T-word. The Mouse, he's always
      listening."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Never you mind. Listen, for this next step, we're going to need
      to give you a little makeover," at this, Discord produced a
      measuring tape and an oversized pair of scissors and began to snip
      at imaginary spots in the air. As he did so, a flickering form
      began to build itself up around Spike. It started as a purple robe,
      fringed with black, and built itself up until it became
      man-shaped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you doing?" Spike asked, in a voice that was suddenly
      aged, gravelly and wizened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hush, I'm concentrating." Discord instantiated a photograph and
      a pen and began sketching a face in midair above the neckline of
      the robes that had built up around Spike, looking to the photograph
      for reference.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Spike moved his paws, the arms of the simulacrum that had
      built up around him moved as well. Discord nodded in approval and
      clapped his paw and claw together to finalize the illusion. Spike
      worked his jaw up and down and tested out his new voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am old and wise. You must listen to me because I am old."
      Spike let out an awkward laugh as he lifted his arms up and down,
      oblivious to the fact that Madam Pomfrey, the hospital matron, had
      just walked in through the entryway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor Dumbledore, Madame Maxime... What are you- I mean,
      hello, good evening to you. Did you need something?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Spike put his arms down quickly, and Discord, who had seamlessly
      transitioned himself into the form of Madame Maxime, replied in a
      flawless, if not over-the-top French accent, "Ah, yes, but zee
      'Eadmaster was just about to show me zee trinkets in 'is office.
      Weren't you now, Dumbly-dore?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um... Yes. Yes I was," Spike spoke in the voice of Albus
      Dumbledore. "Let's, um, let's go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Poppy Pomfrey narrowed her eyes skeptically for a moment, but
      then they widened in shock as she came to an embarrassing
      realization. Poppy had always assumed that Dumbledore was just a
      touch mancy, what with the way he always carried on with the young
      boys. But here she was, interrupting a soon-to-be tryst. She wasn't
      exactly sure how old the Headmaster was, but he was certain to be
      at least a few decades older than Madame Maxime.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Good for him, he deserves it, what with all the work he does
      around here... even if she is a bit long through the bone...</em>
      Madame Pomfrey thought to herself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You two have fun!" she intoned out loud, waving in a stilted
      fashion with an awkward smile on her face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yes, we will 'ave oodles of it!" Discord-Maxime tittered,
      giving Madame Pomfrey an exaggerated wink. "You know what zey say
      about zee wizards with large wands?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Madame Pomfrey blinked a few times. "No...? What do they
      say?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Discord-Maxime rolled her eyes as they left the hospital
      wing.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look at him, he's just like Philomena!" Spike was scratching
      the Phoenix in Dumbledore's office underneath its beak. At first,
      it eyed him skeptically but upon sensing his good, if not different
      nature than his true master, he quickly warmed up. "But what
      exactly are we waiting for?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Discord hummed a little tune and drummed his paw on the desk.
      "Oh, you'll know it when you see it. Or, feel it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fawkes suddenly began to retch, as if he were a cat coughing up
      a hairball.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, no, little guy, it's alright!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But despite Spike's reassurances, Fawkes opened its mouth wide
      and vomited forth a stream of liquid Phoenix-fire all over the
      false Dumbledore. He coughed up a few more times and then belched
      out a pair of objects: a long, dark-grey wand and a short rod of
      dark stone, which promptly arced through the air towards Spike's
      not-face, passing through the spectral form and clattering to the
      floor of the office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That," Discord cackled, "is what we were waiting for. Now,
      remember, the second Mirror is hidden inside the first Mirror,
      which normally shows you your deepest desire, which <em class="calibre7">should</em>
      be the second Mirror because the only way for you to rescue Rarity
      is by retrieving the second Mirror from inside the first Mirror,
      but the first Mirror will only show the second Mirror to someone
      who knows the second Mirror is there but no one alive knows the
      second Mirror is inside the first Mirror, except now for you. You
      got it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I... I don't know?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Third base!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Third... Oh, come on! I'm getting tired of no one understanding
      my little references."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, okay? So... I go down to the third-floor corridor, sing a
      little song to the three-headed dog, then follow the rooms until I
      reach the Mirror. The first Mirror. Right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yep." Discord pouted, moodily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And this rod here will transform the Mirrors into their true
      form..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yep."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you promise I get to eat them when all is said and
      done?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Naturally."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And then how will I find my way to Rarity?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I'm sure some ridiculous trope will apply. Just follow your
      heart or something like that. Or maybe a good Deus Ex Machina will
      fly out of the air like a Phoenix that can teleport people to
      arbitrary locations."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you serious?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, I really have to restrain myself from making that
      'Peter Pettigrew' joke for the third time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Spike rolled Dumbledore's eyes and grabbed the wand and rod off
      the ground with his mouth, which also served as Dumbledore's right
      hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, how exactly do you know so much about all of this?" Spike
      asked, suddenly curious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The truth is, I cheated a bit. I read the plot summary on
      Discordpedia."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Discord produced his copy of Discordpedia and began leafing
      through the pages, "Here, let's see... <em class="calibre7">The Moon's Apprentice...
      Friendship is Optimal... All American Girl.</em>.. Ah, yes, here we
      are. <em class="calibre7">The Longest Day.</em> See, right here. Chapter 21: 'Spike,
      the Brave and Glorious'."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Discord began to read from the entry, " 'Spike, disguised as
      Albus Dumbledore (courtesy of Discord), travels to the Headmaster's
      office to retrieve the Elder Wand and the Line of Merlin, an
      artifact that was brought to Earth by none other than Princess
      Celestia-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Princess Celestial was <em class="calibre7">here?!</em>" Spike interrupted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Patience, patience, little dear. Ahem, as I was saying. '...by
      none other than Princess Celestia, the true identity of the wizard
      known on Earth-616 as Merlin, as a tool to strip away the vessels
      that contain the various Elements of Harmony. Spike travels to the
      third-floor corridor and removes the Mirror of Erised from inside
      the Mirror of Noitilov, and then uses the Line of Merlin to extract
      the Space and Time Stones, respectively. Fawkes then appears, and
      in a burst of Phoenix-fire, transports them both to the graveyard
      where Harry and the ponies are currently being held hostage by Lord
      Voldemort.' See? Clear as crystal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What even is this thing? I have a whole chapter named after me?
      What else does it say about me? Gimme, gimme!" Spike's hands shot
      outward to try to grab the book, but the illusory hands of Albus
      Dumbledore passed through the illusory form of Discord and his
      book.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Get away, this is my private diary! You don't want to upset me,
      I might just change the ending so that Harry just does something
      crazy like snapping his fingers and wiping out half the
      universe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Spike took a step back, "Could... could you actually do
      something like that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, silly dragon, I can do whatever I want! Or at least, I can
      say that I can."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Spike paced back and forth, nervously. "Ok, well this is
      starting to make my head hurt. So just to make totally certain,
      once I show up, this wand will do all the fighting for me? And then
      that will make sure Rarity is safe?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Discord shrugged. "That's what the book says!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And at that, with a deep breath, Spike prepared himself for the
      next steps he needed to take.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
