<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>The Longest Day - The Longest Day Chapter 20: Ragnarok, a Harry Potter + My Little Pony Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="The Longest Day"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s20" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 20: Ragnarok</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Lord Voldemort surveyed the battlefield, looking out over the
      fallen bodies of both loyal and former Death Eaters, briefly
      scanning past the still-moaning, amputated body of Macnair and the
      headless corpse of Lucius Malfoy, across the sleeping form of
      Hermione and the wandless Harry and Draco, before finally settling
      on the remaining captives arranged before him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">All in all, his plan was still progressing nicely. The boy
      was here, the girl revived, the Stone was his, and a convenient
      vessel for the Unbreakable Vow had shown up. As for the girls, he
      would simply kill the spares when the time came.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tell me, Draco, This is not a trick, and you <em class="calibre7">will</em>
      answer truthfully or bear the consequences. If the boy freely chose
      to swear to you an oath, even knowing your father for a former
      Death Eater, you would trust in his words? Answer me!" Voldemort's
      voice rose to a shriek.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I... yes. I would."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good," Voldemort said coldly. "The potential for trust must
      exist to be sacrificed. And for the bonder of the Unbreakable
      Vow... which of you shall sacrifice their magic? It shall be quite
      the long Vow... much longer than usual... much magic shall be
      required for that..." Voldemort smiled his awful smile as he
      observed the five witches standing before him, before settling on
      the pale-skinned, violet-haired witch who was protectively holding
      the dog-that-wasn't-Dumbledore. "You. You seem rather
      <em class="calibre7">generous</em>. What is your name, your true name?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Rarity Belle," she spat defiantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait a minute, your surname is 'Belle'? So your sister's name
      is..." Rainbow Dash couldn't resist the question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, dear. 'Sweetie Belle Belle'." Rarity interrupted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Applejack and Rainbow Dash both stifled a giggle, prompting the
      Dark Lord to shriek, "ENOUGH! Put the dog down."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rarity did as he commanded, and another (albeit smaller) knife
      instantiated at his throat as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Dark Lord went on pacing in front of his captives. "Today -
      though I hardly expect even you to believe me - today we are doing
      Merlin's work, children. Before me stands a great danger, who in
      his blundering folly has been prophesied to wreak destruction such
      as even I can scarcely imagine. The Boy-Who-Lived! The boy who
      frightens <em class="calibre7">Dementors!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort laughed, a strange bitter laugh. When he spoke on his
      high voice was precise. "Here is the oath's intent, Draco Malfoy,
      Rarity Belle, Harry Potter. Listen well and comprehend the Vow that
      must be sworn, for its intent is also binding, and you three must
      share an understanding of its meaning. You will swear, Harry
      Potter, not to destroy the world, to take no risks when it comes to
      not destroying the world. This Vow may <em class="calibre7">not</em> force you into
      any positive action, on account of that, this Vow does not force
      your hand to any stupidity. Do you understand that, Draco, Rarity?
      We are dealing with a prophecy of destruction. A <em class="calibre7">prophecy!</em>
      They can fulfill themselves in twisted ways. I must be cautious
      that this Vow itself does not bring that prophecy about. I dare not
      let this Vow force Harry Potter to stand idly after some disaster
      is already set in motion by his hand, because he must take some
      lesser risk if he tries to stop it. Nor must the Vow force him to
      choose a risk of truly vast destruction, over a certainty of lesser
      destruction. But all Harry Potter's <em class="calibre7">foolishness,</em>"
      Voldemort's voice climbed, "all his <em class="calibre7">recklessness,</em> all his
      <em class="calibre7">grandiose schemes,</em> and <em class="calibre7">good intentions</em> - he shall
      not risk them leading to disaster! He shall not gamble with the
      Earth's fate! No researches that might lead to catastrophe! No
      unbinding of seals, no opening of gates!" Voldemort's voice lowered
      again. "Unless this very Vow itself is somehow leading into the
      destruction of the world, in which case, Harry Potter, you must
      ignore it in that particular regard. You will <em class="calibre7">not</em> trust
      yourself alone in making such a determination, you must confide
      honestly and fully in your trusted friend, and see if that one
      agrees. Such is this Vow's meaning and intent. It forces only such
      acts as you might choose yourself, having learned that he is a
      prophesied instrument of destruction. For the capacity for choice
      must also exist, to be sacrificed. Do you understand, Rarity?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rarity nodded weakly while Spike growled impotently, "I - I
      think so. But I too agree that I really don't think Harry would
      do-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Silence, fool. And you, Draco?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think, that it must be repeated to me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort smiled that too-wide smile and said it all again using
      different words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And now," Voldemort said coldly, "Harry Potter and Draco
      Malfoy, I will return your wands to you, and you will keep your
      wands low, and touch your wand together-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just the tips?" Rainbow Dash giggled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, just the-" Voldemort's anger suddenly surged as he
      realized that the rainbow-haired witch in front of him was
      <em class="calibre7">joking at a time like this.</em> He bade the Dementors to fly
      lower, in a wordless attempt to stifle any further
      interruptions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know that she can kill those things, don't ya, Mister
      Quirrell?" Applejack asked with her arms folded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, those Demendroids? I sure can, wanna see?" Rainbow Dash
      squinted upwards to try to see them amid the darkness of the night
      sky and the canopy of trees above.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I would like to see," Fluttershy whispered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pinkie was too busy examining the sparkly gems embedded in
      Spike's collar to comment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In response, the knives that were hovering an inch from their
      throats drew close against their flesh, and Voldemort shouted,
      "Another word and the four of you will be slain on the spot." He
      directed his attention back towards Harry, Draco, and Rarity. "You
      will speak such words as I direct you. If you speak any other word,
      then I will cut you down, and the rest of you as well. Do you
      understand?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The three nodded. Harry was chilled, and shivering, and not only
      because he was naked in the night. He didn't understand why
      Voldemort was <em class="calibre7">not</em> just killing him. There seemed to be
      only a single line leading into the future, and it was Voldemort's
      chosen line, and Harry did not know what came after this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Rarity Belle," said Voldemort. "Touch your hand to Harry
      Potter's hand, and repeat these words. Magic that flows in me, bind
      this Vow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rarity spoke those words. Behind Voldemort the obelisks chanted,
      a language that Harry did not know; three times they repeated their
      words, then fell silent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draco Malfoy," said Voldemort. "Think of the reasons why you
      might trust this boy if he had given this oath freely. Think of
      that potential for trust, and <em class="calibre7">sacrifice</em> it as you
      say..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"By my trust that I hold for you," said Draco, "be you
      held."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then it was Harry Potter's turn to repeat Lord Voldemort's
      words, and Harry did so.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I vow..." Harry said. His voice shook, but he spoke. "That I
      shall not... by any act of mine... destroy the world... I shall
      take no chances... in not destroying the world... if my hand is
      forced... I may take the course... of lesser destruction over
      greater destruction... unless it seems to me that this Vow
      itself... leads to the world's end... and the friend... in whom I
      have confided honestly... agrees that this is so. By my own free
      will..." Harry could feel it, as the rite was invoked, the shining
      cords of power wrapping around his wand and Draco's wand, wrapping
      around his hand where Rarity's hand touched it, wrapping around his
      <em class="calibre7">self</em> on some disturbingly abstract level. Harry could feel
      himself <em class="calibre7">invoking</em> his power of free choice, and he knew
      that his next words would <em class="calibre7">sacrifice</em> it, that this was
      absolutely the last chance to turn back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...so shall it be," said the coldly precise voice of Lord
      Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...so shall it be," Harry repeated, and he knew at that moment
      that the content of the Vow was no longer something he could decide
      whether or not to do, it was simply the way in which his body and
      mind would move. It was not a vow he could break even by
      sacrificing his life in the process. Like water flowing downhill or
      a calculator summing numbers, it was just a
      thing-Harry-Potter-would-do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did the Vow take, Draco?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco sounded like he was weeping. "Yes... I have lost so much,
      please..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Return to your places... Good," said Voldemort. The Dark Lord
      floated high in the air, the black-clad figure overlooking the
      graveyard. The Dementors swarmed at his behest, surrounding the
      group, preparing to feast if the next step did not go as planned.
      "Better. <em class="calibre7">Now</em> I shall kill the Boy-Who-Lived."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Beneath the moonlight glints a tiny fragment of silver, a
      fraction of a line...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort noticed the trick of light from the corner of his eye
      and immediately reacted, sparing no time for further dramatics. As
      he loosed his mental instructions out for the Dementors to follow,
      the line expanded into something larger, something brighter,
      something blinding. The Dementors swooped downward.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">(black robes, falling)</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a quick flick of his wrist, the knives that were poised
      threateningly against Spike, Pinkie Pie, Applejack, Rainbow Dash,
      Fluttershy, and Rarity pushed into their flesh and drew themselves
      savagely across their throats.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">...blood spills out in liters</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The five witches and the dog fell to the ground in crumpled
      heaps, and Harry barely had time to register the shock before the
      blinding silver light was the only thing that he or anyone in the
      graveyard could see.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">...and someone screams a word.</em></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
