<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>The Longest Day - The Longest Day Chapter 22: Friendship is Magic, a Harry Potter + My Little Pony Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="The Longest Day"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s22" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 22: Friendship is Magic</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, this is much better." Discord sighed, "Don't you
      agree?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione looked around the library, which seemed imperceptibly
      <em class="calibre7">different</em> than it had a moment before: simultaneously less
      concrete but somehow more <em class="calibre7">real</em>. Notably, Twilight was
      missing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where did Twilight go?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just give it a bit, she'll be here any second. We need to catch
      up with what's happening." Discord twiddled his 'thumbs' for a
      moment and whistled a little ditty, and after a few moments,
      Twilight dutifully winked back into existence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She shook her mane a bit, taking a few moments to reorient
      herself. Twilight was suspicious, as she always was whenever
      Discord was in one of his <em class="calibre7">moods</em> like he appeared to be in
      now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What did you do? Why does it feel different?" Twilight
      demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Acknowledging my limitations, that's all, my little pony. I
      would say I'm playing to my strengths, but that would imply that
      writing is my strong suit. Which, let's be honest, I have a bad
      habit of taking twenty-thousand words to get the action going, and
      my publishing schedule has been more than a little erratic."
      Discord floated lazily across the void as he spoke.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have no idea what you're talking about. What's really going
      on here?" Twilight was pacing underneath where Discord floated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, you wouldn't, would you? But you, on the other hand, my
      bookish friend... You understand, don't you?" He flew up close to
      Hermione and sat down, propping himself up with a claw, and began
      combing her coat with a comb that was gripped in his wing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I... This whole thing. At first, I thought this was a figment
      of my imagination. That I was dead, and that this was just a dream,
      that my brain's pattern still 'existed' in some abstract sense...
      But then she showed up, and you showed up. And it's not that, is
      it? This isn't my imagination, this <em class="calibre7">is</em> Imagination.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry would always go on about cryogenics, about how it was
      logical and rational and how you'd have to be an idiot not to hand
      over a lot of money based on some seriously questionable science.
      We didn't quite see eye to eye on the issue, but his heart was in
      the right place. And I'm pretty certain that Harry would have
      preserved my body..." she shuddered for a moment as she considered
      this, "...or at least my head, when I... you know. When I
      died."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do go on, this exposition is enthralling."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't seem very enthralled, Discord." Twilight pointed
      out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, well she's taking quite a long time to get to the good
      stuff, isn't she?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione huffed a bit, "Well, excuse me, but it's not every day
      that someone is thrust into an afterlife with no explanation and
      has to figure everything out herself!""</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Discord threw his arms up in mock defensiveness, "Speak for
      yourself! Anyway, do go on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well. Well, then Twilight Sparkle showed up and told me about
      this whole other world that existed, and the whole thing just felt
      like... A story. A cartoon, a TV show, a book. This couldn't have
      just been <em class="calibre7">my</em> imagination. And if Harry had preserved my
      body using Magic, it's entirely possible, probable even, that other
      people had been preserved using the same means. Harry, despite how
      clever he thinks he is, isn't the only person with lofty ideals and
      ideas.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, as far as I can tell, this place is a construct of Magic, a
      place of pure imagination, of all form and no substance. And look,
      despite the fact that Harry can be a bit silly at times, he's my
      friend, and I'm his friend. He's a good person, and he wouldn't
      want me to stay dead, to stay in this place. And you..." She turned
      to Twilight, "I think your friends probably feel the same way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Twilight nodded, "I came to your world because I was following a
      prophecy. Ever since my world was created, our worlds have been
      bound together, and the time has come for that bond to end. In a
      way, at least to you, our world will be destroyed. And yet, in
      another way, it will still live on forever, in memory. But your
      world, something else must happen entirely. And that's what I
      wasn't clear on." Twilight cleared her throat as she remembered the
      relevant part of the prophecy, " <em class="calibre7">'The world that birthed this
      world must be destroyed, for this is the only way to save that
      world.'</em> I didn't understand it, how could destroying the world
      save the world? So I came here to investigate..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Discord cackled, "And your investigation was cut short in quite
      a spectacular manner. Dismembered and devoured by a dark wizard
      doing dark deeds!" He preened for a moment. "I have quite the
      talent for alliteration, don't I?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure, Discord." Twilight continued, "I told my friends that if
      I didn't come back, they needed to follow in my footsteps, not for
      my sake, but for the sake of this world. Maybe for the sake of all
      worlds, too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Twilight," Hermione asked, putting her hoof to her chin, "Do
      you remember the full text of the prophecy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She nodded. "It's actually a continuation of a prophecy that I
      thought we had already solved. It's honestly the longest prophecy
      I've ever seen. It starts like this...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">'<em class="calibre7">On the longest day of the thousandth year, the stars will
      aid in her escape, and she will bring about nighttime
      eternal.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">For the stars in the heavens have grown heavy, an anchor
      that if left unchecked will destroy the world from which Equus was
      born.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Following the ninth season of strife, the world that birthed
      this world must be destroyed, for this is the only way to save that
      world.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The stars shall be torn from the heavens, and in that
      sunless sky, a new eternal day shall dawn for Equus.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The elements, the stones of infinite power must be sought,
      understood, and embraced: strange charms of truth and beauty which
      make up become down.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The ones who command the six forces must stand before the
      world, who will bear witness to its power and speak
      together:</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">'You are here. The one who shall tear apart the very stars
      in heaven. You are here. You are the end of the world.' "</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione frowned, hard. "Strange, charm, truth, beauty, up,
      down... Those are the names of the six quarks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Discord giggled and clapped his hands with glee, but said
      nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Twilight cocked her head, "The six... quarks? That's kind of a
      silly name, isn't it? What are they?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're... Well, they're the building blocks of everything.
      Life, matter, even reality, really. Without them, there would be
      nothing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That sounds a lot like the Elements of Harmony."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you said... 'The ones who command the six forces'. That
      doesn't seem... There's something about that. 'The ones'. Not one
      person, but many. A group of people. Maybe even an entire world of
      people?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Twilight nodded in agreement, "At first, I thought it might have
      referred to my friends because, in our world, we can harness the
      power of the Elements of Harmony."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But that doesn't really fit, does it? You don't really...
      <em class="calibre7">command</em> the Elements. You harness them, you use them, but
      they don't really do what you ask, do they?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Twilight shook her head, "No, they don't. It's almost like they
      have a mind of their own. A certain... wisdom, you might say."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes... I think, I think perhaps the prophecy might be referring
      to someone... some THING different. Like... science."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You may be right, but I don't think that's the full picture.
      The elements must be '<em class="calibre7">sought, understood and embraced',</em>
      not just commanded. I think that it's both. Someone who not just
      commands their power, but understands the Elements of Harmony and
      embraces their ideals."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes... It's almost like, the prophecy is saying, the world has
      to... I don't know... be united in both Friendship and Science?
      It's like I've always told Harry, just because you <em class="calibre7">can</em> do
      it alone doesn't mean you <em class="calibre7">have to.</em> There's a whole world
      out there of people with different experiences and different lives,
      you can't just assume you're the only person who really knows how
      things are."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Twilight thought about this for a bit. "That does seem right.
      But then, where do we go from here? I mean, not 'we' like the
      world, but 'we' like you and me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what am I, chopped horse meat?" Discord interjected
      incredulously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Twilight sighed, "You can come along too if you want..." she
      trailed off and muttered a bit, "Not that you need my
      permission..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Discord chuckled, "No, no. I'm perfectly fine where I'm at,
      observing things from a distance, pulling little strings and loose
      threads wherever I find them." Discord suddenly gasped and held a
      claw up to his mouth. "But dear me, I realized how terribly rude
      I've been!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You asked a question earlier that I never got around to
      answering. You asked, why does it feel different? It's simple,
      really: she's alive, now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?!" Hermione exclaimed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alive and well! I'd show you myself, but we have an unexpected
      visitor who I think will illustrate the point far more vividly. Mr.
      Malfoy, would you like to introduce yourself?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Malfoy?!" Hermione shouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I... are you there? Is someone there?" Lucius Malfoy's voice
      floated eerily from a place beyond places.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lucius Malfoy, what is <em class="calibre7">he</em> doing here?" Hermione
      demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Discord bobbed up and down impatiently, "Normally I would let
      you all take a chapter or two to figure out together how all of
      this came to be, but we're running quite short on time. So many
      places to go, so many people to be, you know how it is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Discord clapped his paw and claw together, and the form of
      Lucius Malfoy melted into existence out of the nothingness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy looked around, thoroughly disoriented until he saw the
      two unicorns and odd dragon-like creature standing in front of
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you doing here, Mr. Malfoy?" Hermione once again
      demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do... Do I know you?" Lucius asked, urgently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, it's me, Hermione Granger, how could you forg- Oh." She
      realized that she was currently presenting as a unicorn rather than
      her human self. She concentrated hard, willing her form to change
      into what she seemed to remember she looked like, a process she
      found much easier now that she was apparently alive.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy nodded, uncharacteristically frightened and discomposed,
      "Yes, Miss Granger. Yes... Listen, we don't have much time. Draco
      and Harry, they're in danger. I... I can still feel the world
      around me, I don't think I'm quite dead yet-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dead?!" Hermione exclaimed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, murdered by a servant of Lord Voldemort. He is returned,"
      Lucius said, simply. "My life in that world is draining quickly...
      Just... Look."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius closed his eyes and concentrated, and around them, a
      scene began to unfold; a strange, menacing figure that was too tall
      to be human, standing over Harry and Draco and a collection of
      witches, one of whom was touching Harry's hand-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My friends!" Twilight shouted with an exhilaration that soon
      gave way to fright as she saw the predicament they were in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The voices were too muffled to be heard, but it was clear that
      Lucius Malfoy was telling the truth; they were all in grave
      danger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While Twilight was focused on her friends and the knives at
      their throats, Hermione was transfixed by something else entirely:
      her own form upon the altar, her own chest rising slowly up and
      down, her own blood pumping through her own heart of its own
      volition.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The scene around them was becoming more and more solid, more
      real.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He... Harry did it. He really did it. I'm... I'm alive,"
      Hermione whispered, tears beginning to form at the corners of her
      eyes. "My friend. My friend saved me...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The forest began to encroach in around them, with black hooded
      figures circling menacingly above.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He saved me... because he is my friend... And now..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Beneath the moonlight glints a tiny fragment of silver, a
      fraction of a line...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione drew herself up to her full height, "Now, I have to
      save him. Because he is my friend... and..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">(Black robes, falling)</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Twilight gasped as she saw the knives that were pressed against
      the throats of her friends move with sudden, savage ferocity.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">...blood spills out in liters</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Friendship... is... MAGIC!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">...and someone screams a word.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"EXPECTO PATRONUM!"</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
