<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>The Longest Day - The Longest Day Chapter 7: Dr Swann's Proposal, a Harry Potter + My Little Pony Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="The Longest Day"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s7" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 7: Dr Swann's Proposal</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">June 7, 1992<br class="calibre4"/>
      Hogwarts</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, Amelia," Dumbledore spoke, wearily. "I do not think it is
      something to worry about."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore had been steadfastly ignoring the urgent calls from
      Azkaban, alerting them that one of their Dementors had gone
      missing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's the second one in a matter of months, Albus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm well aware. Although, I cannot pretend to be saddened by
      the loss of one of these monstrous creatures."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I'm well aware, Albus," Amelia Bones mocked in frustration,
      "of your disdain for doing what needs to be done when it fails to
      line up with your well-signaled virtues. At this rate, Azkaban will
      be unguarded within a few years."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, and what a pity that would be," Dumbledore replied,
      dryly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Be as high-minded as you want, but unless you can build us
      another Nurmengard, we need them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would consider it my life's greatest achievement if I could
      do so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you can't!" Amelia shouted, her voice distorting through
      the two-way mirror. "And that's my point! You may have bested
      Grindelwald in battle, but in this matter, you were not his
      equal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore sighed. "Yes, I know that, and it pains me every
      day."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This has something to do with the Potter boy," Amelia changed
      tacks abruptly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh?" Albus asked pleasantly. "But, then again, doesn't
      everything?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones grunted, half in agreement, half in frustration. "We need
      to work together on this. We fight the same enemy, Albus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is true, that you and I fight the same enemy. But as for the
      boy, I fear he does not think as small-minded as we two fools."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tell me if you learn anything new from him," she dismissed his
      cryptic response.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh Amelia," he replied politely. "When have I ever been
      forthcoming about my secrets?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That will get us into trouble one day, Albus. Bones out." And
      at that, the mirror went dark.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Dumbledore was sure the mirror was no longer transmitting,
      Dumbledore pulled out the sopping wet, black tattered cloak that he
      had retrieved from the Black Lake not minutes earlier, having been
      alerted to its presence and subsequent destruction by the death
      wards surrounding Hogwarts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He smiled, despite himself.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Earlier<br class="calibre4"/></em><em class="calibre7">The Hogwarts common.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The next morning after meeting with Dumbledore, Harry noticed an
      unusually large crowd gathered outside on the commons. It was
      mostly boys, although there were a handful of girls; few that he
      recognized, though. Ashley Bahl was one of them, the only remaining
      descendent of Phegor Bahl, inventor of the famed Bahl's
      Stupefaction. He also recognized Nymphadora Tonks, although she was
      looking a bit more... roguish than usual. He looked up to see what
      the crowd was staring at, and up in the sky, on a broom, he saw
      Rainbow Witch dashing through the air on a broomstick, doing tricks
      and plainly loving the attention. She seemed very natural, as if
      the sky was where she was meant to be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When she spotted him, she shouted down to him. "Hey, Harry!
      Yeah, you! Come on up here, I heard you're really good on one of
      these!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Out of nowhere, Oliver Wood thrust a broom into his hands, and
      several of the boys around him whistled appreciatively and gave him
      large, exaggerated winks. Although, for the life of him, he
      couldn't understand why. "Go on, Harry!" Wood urged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tentatively, although swiftly, he rose in the air to meet
      her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're not too bad, that was a speedy ascent!" She called to
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, I'm not exactly proud of it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why not?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I happen to believe that taking unnecessary pride in physical
      prowess is..." He tried to think of a term that she would properly
      respond to," ...lame."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're the lame one!" She spat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good one?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was idly riding in circles around him, turning upside down
      on occasion. "Come on, isn't this fun? What's the point,
      otherwise?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rolled his eyes. "I could think of a lot of things that
      would be a lot better use of my time than flying around on tool
      primarily used for cleaning floors."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yeah? Like what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I don't know, trying to bring my friend back? Trying to
      bring your friend back?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rainbow Witch paused, briefly. "Oh. Yeah, I guess that's
      important. But do you think your friend would really want you just
      wasting your life, moping around? Or do you think she'd want you
      having fun?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was ready to deliver a biting reply, but he thought for a
      moment. This was the sort of question Pinkie Pie would have asked
      him. But, if he really thought about it, and if he asked Hermione
      honestly, she <em class="calibre7">wouldn't</em> want him just moping around.
      "Probably not. You know, your friend, Pinkie Pie, we had a pretty
      similar conversation about this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, that doesn't surprise me. Pinkie likes fun even more than
      I do, and that's saying something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry bobbed up and down on the broom for a moment, thinking how
      to phrase his question. "So, do you all... you know, respect her?
      She mentioned that, well, how do I put this? She made a lot of
      scarily accurate guesses about me, things that you'd really only be
      able to figure out if you were insanely observant, logical, and
      very good at making accurate predictions. But you all don't really
      seem to treat her like she's very smart."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rainbow Witch laughed a bit at this. "Oh, one of her hunches,
      huh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded emphatically. "Yes, that's exactly what she called
      it. But when I asked her about it, she said that no one really asks
      her to explain herself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well sure, I learned to stop asking her ages ago. The last time
      she tried to explain one of her hunches to me, she wound up talking
      about grambitational pull and terminal philosophy and reference
      fangs for about thirty minutes and she totally lost me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry could only barely piece together what he assumed Pinkie
      Pie was talking about. "So you all have physics, where you come
      from?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, duh! Of course we have physics. What else do you think
      keeps the world running?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grumbled in frustration. "I mean, do they <em class="calibre7">teach</em>
      physics?" Harry only just noticed that Rainbow Witch was staring at
      him in expectation, and realized too late that he had fallen for
      her joke, hook, line, and sinker.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She laughed uproariously at him and spun around him a few times.
      "Yes, they <em class="calibre7">teach</em> physics. Jeez, you need to lighten up, or
      you're not going to have many friends."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rolled his eyes again. "Are you going to give me
      friendship lessons now, too?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probably? Me and my friends, we're called all over the place to
      solve friendship problems." She could see that he wasn't following,
      so she continued. "Where I'm from, we have a big map of the world
      that lets us know when there's a friendship problem that needs to
      be solved. We call it the 'Friendship Map', but Discord told us
      that we should call it the 'Ball of Prophecies' while we're
      here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry couldn't help but grin at the ridiculousness of Discord's
      arbitrary names. "And it told you to come here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah. Well, kind of. Twilight, she's been visiting this world
      on and off for years, now. But for a while, she's been really
      freaking out about this one prophecy, one that we already figured
      out in our world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's felt an increasingly uncomfortable sense of
      apprehension. "By any chance does it go something like, 'On the
      longest day of the thousandth year, the stars will aid in her
      escape, and she will bring about nighttime eternal.'?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rainbow Witch's eyes went wide. "Yeah! Wow, how did you
      guess?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged and grinned. "Just a hunch."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She nodded and went on. "Huh! Alright, well, she's been-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait, wait. You're not even going to <em class="calibre7">ask</em>? You really
      take these impossibly wild guesses in stride, don't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why bother? I mean, you can tell me, but if you start to go all
      Pinkie on me, I'm going to start doing pinwheels until you're
      done."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed. "Fine, continue."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She had already sped off a few meters and had to brake, hard,
      when she heard him. She floated back and went on. "Well, anyway.
      She's been reading into this prophecy, saying something about the
      "crux", how magic from our world was seeping into yours and was
      going to cause something terrible to happen unless she was able to
      "throw the pebble in the pond". Normally, when she visits, she
      looks like we do now, but this time-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rainbow Witch suddenly seemed to realize that she may have
      misspoken, and she quickly backtracked. "Doesn't matter. Anyway,
      she came over to this world, and it was a <em class="calibre7">really</em> long time
      before we saw her again. Just when we started to get concerned,
      that's when the Map- er... the 'Ball of Prophecies' lit up and told
      us to come here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, how long have you all known each other, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, a pretty long time. Years, at least "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Since you were kids, then? "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">'Ehh, not all of them. I mean, I knew Fluttershy, er... 'Jane',
      I guess. I knew her growing up. But I met the rest of my friends
      later. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait, so how old are you?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hm." She seemed to be putting serious thought into the
      question. "You know, I don't really know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had heard it was rude to ask a woman her age, so he wasn't
      sure if this was something that he should pry on. But on the other
      hand, she didn't seem to be particularly upset or reticent to
      discuss the subject. "Why not?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, you just sort of lose track, don't you? I mean, do you
      know how old you are?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, eleven."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean, you're eleven? Eleven what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Eleven years...?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right, I don't get it. Eleven years of what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was starting to get annoyed. "I mean that in the time
      between when I was born and today, at least eleven years have
      passed. How else would I mean it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you being serious? You… you're just a baby. Not even a
      baby."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry huffed, defensively. ''How old are you then? Just take a
      shot in the dark. A wild guess. Older or younger than, say,
      20?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She laughed. "Good one." Harry didn't respond. He didn't even
      really know how to respond to that. When it was clear that Harry
      was not going to provide further feedback, she continued. "Well, I
      know I have to be less than 1000 because I wasn't around for
      Princess Luna's banishment," she said, mostly to herself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry eyed her. "How long do you think a year is?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, it's four seasons long, duh."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay... and how long is a season?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I feel like the question was pretty self-explanatory."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Getting equally annoyed, herself, she turned the line of
      questioning around on him. "Okay, how long is a day? "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"24 hours."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And how long is an hour? "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rolled his eyes. "Okay, I see where you're going here. An
      hour is 3,600 seconds. And one second is roughly 9,000,000,000
      cycles of a cesium atomic clock. But not that it matters. I'm
      guessing we don't have the same standard units of time, even though
      we use some of the same words."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I guess so. One thing I can say is your days are a lot longer
      than ours. Like, a whole lot longer. It feels like forever since I
      got to take a nap." She let out an exaggerated yawn.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was diving down a tangential rabbit hole, but this was
      kind of fascinating. After all, how often does one ever really get
      to have this kind of conversation?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"OK well, how about this. You mentioned two princesses. How old
      was the queen when she had them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Queen? We don't have a queen where I'm from. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What? Then where did the princesses come from?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, 'Princess' is a title you earn, not one you're born with.
      What stupid sort of system would let you be a ruler just because of
      who your parents were?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry laughed, humorlessly. "There are a lot of people, myself
      included, who would agree with you… But sadly, a lot who would
      disagree, too. It's a rather progressive idea. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not 'progressive', it just makes sense."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Exactly. Progressive. You should see the kinds of things that
      people believe, here. Racism… Sexism… A lot of people here even
      think it's bad if you're a boy who likes other boys or…" He tested
      his next words, gently. "Or a girl who likes other girls… "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She stopped flying, abruptly, and hung in midair glaring at him.
      "Okay, what is it with this place? You are like, the fifth person
      to go out of their way to talk about that, about 'boys liking boys'
      and 'girls liking girls'." She paused for a moment. "Although now
      that I think about it, you're the first boy that said something…
      But anyway. Is that... not a thing here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well… Yes, it's a thing, but… People don't exactly… well, it
      makes you different. And people don't always like 'different'
      here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hm." She looked at him thoughtfully. "I guess people must not
      like you, then. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I… Well… Like I said, people don't always like
      'different'."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She folded her arms in a self-satisfied manner. "Yeah, I've only
      been here a few days, and it's obvious you like that blond boy,
      what's his name, Dracula? And you're a boy… "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What? Draco? Yes I, look – "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come to think of it, I see a lot of girls liking girls and boys
      liking boys, here... oh… I get it! Is that what this school is for?
      People who are 'different'?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stammered out his response, "No, I mean, yes, but. No.
      Yes, we're different, but, not different like, that… Not that
      there's anything wrong with that, of course. And me and Draco, we
      are friends, that's all. I don't think I'm even old enough to
      really like someone like that. I mean, when did it… Well… OK,
      forgive me for being so forward but, do you, you know… Like
      girls?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She laughed at him. "Well duh. Of course I like girls. Who
      wouldn't I like somebody just because they're a girl? That's dumb.
      I like boys, too, for that matter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry couldn't tell if she being deliberately obtuse to get a
      rise out of him, or if she was blissfully oblivious. "No, I mean…
      <em class="calibre7">LIKE</em>, like."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Internally, he shook his head at himself. He could not believe
      that he actually used the phrase '<em class="calibre7">LIKE</em>, like' in a
      non-ironic manner. He continued, "As in, do you like girls enough
      to maybe, one day, eventually, I don't know, have a baby with them?
      Or," Harry winced. "Do the things that lead to babies being
      made."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean, travel up to the stars with the Princess of the
      Night, pick one out, and take it down from the sky?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is THAT how you think babies are made?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, yeah. That's how Twilight's brother did it. He and
      Princess Cadence tell me the story all the time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They tell you the-" Harry blinked a few times. "Well, it's
      certainly a creative take on 'the stork'… I hate to break it to
      you, not that I have personal experience, but the actual process is
      a lot more… Messy. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She rolled her eyes at him. "I know that, dummy, I'm a lot older
      than you are, you know. I just didn't want to go all Sci-Twi and
      talk about star fusion and quantum identity patterns and Birthing
      Matrixes and all that boring stuff about how babies are REALLY
      made."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was Harry's turn to stop flying in midair and stare,
      open-mouthed, at her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We… It's done a bit differently here. A bit more, uh,
      organically. So, where you are from, are people even able to have
      babies without the help of a 'princess', which I assume is some
      kind of euphemism for 'scientist'?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nice word. And, no, how else would you travel up to the
      stars?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stared at her blankly. "So… 'Princess' isn't a euphemism
      then. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you sure you know what that word means?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry thought for a moment, vaguely annoyed that his advanced
      vocabulary was being corrected by a punk rock version of a dumb
      jock. "Why don't you walk me through exactly what happens when you
      all… Make babies."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She grinned at him. "Are you sure you can handle it? Well, went
      two ponies really love each other –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ponies?" Harry cut in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She blinked a few times and backtracked "It's, uh... It's a
      euphemism. You know, like the 'birds and the bees'?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was satisfied, if not confused by the explanation. His
      brain had been so overloaded with bizarre information that he had
      temporarily turned off his "pay attention to small notes of
      confusion" functionality and had shifted into somewhere into
      'skeptical credulity' mode. "Sure. So when two 'ponies' really love
      each other..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, so, when two people want to bring new life into the
      world, they submit their request to the Princess of the Sun."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had to try very hard to not interrupt her with more
      questions, which manifested itself as him squirming and fidgeting
      awkwardly with the hem of his robe. She had paused in anticipation
      of this but noted his courteous silence. She smiled, and nodded in
      acknowledgment of his restraint, and continued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whenever a new land is discovered, or," she said the next
      phrase somewhat hastily, "Whenever there's a vacancy, she will
      approve the request and send them notification of her choice. Then,
      on the next full moon, the Princess of the Night will take them
      into the stars."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was chewing on his fist to prevent himself from shouting
      out questions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They find a star that speaks to them. Well, not, literally, it
      doesn't talk to them, but, one that, you know, seems to be the
      right fit. And then the Princess takes it out of the sky, and
      then..." She paused for a moment, eyeing Harry suspiciously. "Okay,
      you kind of got me, there. I don't actually know all the science
      that happens next. All I know is, the star disappears from the sky,
      and then three seasons later, a baby crawls out of a birthing
      chamber."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry waited a few interminable seconds to make sure that she
      was completely done, and then he opened his mouth and vomited out a
      torrent of questions. "What on Earth is the Princess of the Sun?
      What do you mean 'when a new land is discovered'? What is a
      vacancy? Are your people sterile, otherwise? Where, physically, are
      you all located? I'm getting this dystopian future,
      Neuromancer-type feel to things here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She tried to take them one at a time. "The Princess of the Sun,
      she's in charge of… Well, a lot of stuff. One of those things is
      deciding who gets to bring new life into the world, and when."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Got it. So the 'sun' the part is a metaphor?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, for the most part. It's definitely not a euphemism."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're a jerk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She cackled and zoomed on her broom a few times around, him
      leaving iridescent whorls of dust in her wake. "We have people
      called 'explorers' whose job it is to find new lands and make them
      suitable for people to live in. But, I think that word is a
      euphemism because they never seem to actually be exploring. They're
      always cooped up in the castle at Canterlot, doing science
      things."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do these people, these 'explorers', happen to use telescopes a
      lot?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She stopped her circles. "Hey, your hunches are almost as good
      as Pinkie's!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Speaking of Pinkie and hunches, what's your name? I mean, your
      real name, not the one that Discord gave you. To be honest, I've
      been calling you Rainbow Witch in my head since I saw you." When
      she didn't say anything in response, he blurted out, "You know,
      because of your hair. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, you're half right. Rainbow Dash is the name, being
      awesome is my game!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She flew by him and gave him a hearty pat on the back. He
      awkwardly tried to return the gesture but missed by a solid half
      meter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nice to meet you. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's barometer for prediction felt like a compass that had
      been shoved up against a massive electromagnet. His current theory,
      which he assigned credence of 10%, maybe 15% tops, was that Rainbow
      Dash and her friends came from an advanced human society that had
      somehow figured out interstellar travel. They clearly hadn't
      mastered terraforming; otherwise, why would they be living in a
      tightly regimented, pseudo-post-scarcity dystopia/utopia?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was only eight or nine months ago that his entire
      understanding of the world and the universe was turned upside down,
      so what was one more reality-bending revelation. Although he wasn't
      totally confident about the whole "portal-generating space
      humanoids" hypothesis, he assigned much higher credence to his next
      prediction: The destruction of Atlantis didn't have to be a
      disaster, what if it was an exodus? Of all the explanations for
      Magic, the remnant technology of some lost, advanced civilization
      that had abandoned the Earth for... something... was one of the
      more plausible ones.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, I have another hunch I want to test out. Where you're from,
      is it called Atlantis?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rainbow Dash stroked her chin thoughtfully. "Yeah, I guess."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Rainbow Dash and her friends come from Atlantis:
      92%.<br class="calibre4"/></em><em class="calibre7">Rainbow Dash and her friends are from outer
      space: 22%.<br class="calibre4"/></em><em class="calibre7">Rainbow Dash is just messing with me:
      6%.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rainbow Dash continued, "I mean, that's an old name. Like a
      really, really old name. But that's what they used to call where
      I'm from."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do they call it now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Equestria."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, I get the pony euphemism now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You all are 'Equestrians'... people who ride... oh, never mind.
      Ok, so I think I've worked most of it out. But you said something
      about vacancies. Is that, er... I'm assuming that means when
      somebody dies."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, sure. But I mean how often does THAT happen?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Every day?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not funny."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She slowed down, as she could see that Harry was quite plainly
      not kidding around. In fact, he looked confused. "How often do
      people…" She worked her mouth around the question "... How often do
      people die here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Here? Not often. Well, <em class="calibre7">too</em> often," Harry shrugged,
      bitterly. "But if we're talking about the whole world, and not just
      here in this castle, then all the time. Probably two or three every
      second. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She hung stock still in mid-air, mouth agape. "Two or three
      every… Second? "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sadly, yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She didn't move from her position in the air. "How… How do you
      even live like that? I mean, in the entire time I've been around,
      I've only heard of one person who... Wait. You don't really mean
      <em class="calibre7">die</em>, die. You just mean, well what do you mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, <em class="calibre7">die</em>, die. As in, everything they are and
      everything they were, gone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If this is some kind of prank, you're pretty sick."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why on Earth would I joke about this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know. I really hope you are, but you don't sound like
      you're kidding. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Something about the genuinely horrified, shocked, stupefied look
      on her face hit Harry on a visceral level. It was the kind of
      reaction that someone couldn't fake, or pretend. The absolute
      horror, the revulsion at the thought of people dying with such
      sickening frequency. It was written all over her face end it made
      Harry feel a very deep, very real connection with her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was scrutinizing him the same way. Reading his face, seeing
      if he was kidding, just making a tasteless joke. When she realized
      he wasn't, that he was dead serious, and masking a seething rage at
      the very thought of it, she was hit with another wave of emotion.
      Not the sickening anger of before, but pity, deep overwhelming pity
      for this boy, this baby in front of her who was subject to, and
      would likely continue to be subjected to the most unimaginable
      horror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Without really thinking about it, she sped her broom towards him
      and locked her arms around him in a tight hug and patted his back.
      "I'm sorry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The cheers and whoops from the students gathered far below were
      a dim afterthought in Harry's mind. As he returned a hug. "What is
      it with you people and your tear-inducing hugs?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, that happens a lot. You get used to it." She gave him an
      irreverent punch on the arm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Given that Harry didn't have much experience with heartfelt
      physical displays of emotion, he wasn't quite sure how he was
      supposed to end things. So he let his arms dangle limply to his
      sides and gave her an awkward half-wave, half-salute. She cocked
      her head and laughed at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're, uh, not very good at this whole 'hug' thing, are
      you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry mumbled something unintelligible, then regained his
      composure. "So you live in this post-scarcity world, huh? And death
      is... a distant memory, but still there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rainbow Dash nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have a little... experiment, that I'd like to do. I'm not
      sure why, but I feel like this is something important."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, okay."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you have to trust me, okay? It might be scary, but you're
      going to be safe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You sound like Applejack. And, 'scary'?" She scoffed at him. "I
      eat 'scary' for breakfast."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good. Now, follow me, we need to go somewhere that people won't
      be able to see what we're doing."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Meanwhile</em><br class="calibre4"/>
      <em class="calibre7">Down on the ground</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's indecent. Inappropriate. And more importantly, it's not
      fair!" Roger Davies fumed in the general direction of Oliver Wood
      and Nymphadora Tonks, the few remaining people in the now-dispersed
      crowd, neither of whom paid him much mind. "He's a firstie! He's
      eleven! Does he even... you know?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks rolled her eyes heavily, and Oliver Wood was steadfastly
      pretending to be thoroughly engrossed in the trimming of his
      broom's tail twigs. A few other Slytherin quidditch players were
      watching the unlikely pair up in the sky, trying to track down
      where they were headed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oi! Wood!" Davies slapped the front of Wood's broom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is it, Davies?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I said, does... he... even..." He arched his eyebrows
      deliberately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's creepy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Roger clapped his hands together. "Right? Right? See,
      Nymphadora? Wood agrees. It's creepy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not even worthy of a 'Don't call me Nymphadora'." Tonks
      hurled a studded wristband at Davies' head to punctuate her point,
      forcing him to contort his body to deflect the projectile. "You're
      the creepy one. You already scared off Ashley Bahl. And you're
      about to scare me off too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wood nodded. "She's right. Just come off it, man. You're
      embarrassing yourself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're the embarrassing one!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wood had finished tidying his broom up by this point and
      extended his hand to Tonks, who was still sitting on the grass. She
      hopped up onto her feet and put her hand around Wood's waist as
      they started to walk away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"See ya later, blister in the sun," she waved at Davies, without
      turning back to look at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know what that means!" He shouted back at her, alone
      now on the common, watching Wood and Tonks walk off towards the
      castle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can't say I blame him, though." Tonks grinned at Wood. "Good
      for Potter, eh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is my lot in life. I'm surrounded by ridiculous people."
      Wood sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't pretend you don't love it," She gave him a quick peck on
      the cheek. "See you in Charms, broom-boy."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Meanwhile<br class="calibre4"/></em><em class="calibre7">Azkaban</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Dementor wafted gently back and forth amidst the seemingly
      perpetual torrents of rain. It floated as lazily as a concrete
      representation of an abstract pattern could float; there were no
      expectations to guide it besides the vague, disconnected obligation
      to the oligarchs of Britain and the Aurors who enforced their will.
      The Aurors did not know the exact location of this Dementor, only
      that it was supposed to be guarding the perimeter. As such, it was
      listless, with little purpose other than to simply exist, despite
      the fact that it had no existence in and of itself. It was a being
      composed solely of negative space, defined purely by the absence of
      life, an Escher painting made concrete.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Long before the era of Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres, the 15th
      century magical scholar, Phillipus Aureolus Theophrastus Bombastus
      von Hohenheim was credited with, among other things, discovering
      and proving conclusive means of slaying a dementor: the complete
      and utter extermination of life. Indeed, it was a popular theory at
      the time that the ancient Atlanteans had fled from this world
      because it had become overcome with the Specters of Death, and only
      by destroying the world could they truly save it. As it were, there
      was about as much truth behind that origin story as there was
      behind the theory that Atlanteans were interstellar travelers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But as it stood, no one had managed to provide a demonstration
      of Paracelsus' conjecture. And as with many magical truths, the
      knowledge of it faded from the minds of the wizened over the
      centuries, until it was replaced with daft, but comforting
      superstition. The Dementors, responding to the shift in perception
      and expectation, obliged through no volition of their own.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When the violently pulsating light pierced the waves of
      rainfall, a new set of expectations, a new perspective took
      precedent over all others.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And the Dementor cowered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Leave us... Please.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">NO.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Leave us... it is our nature. Do not wish it, but cannot
      cease.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">COME.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Leave us...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">COME, OR END.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was no conflict of expectations, there could be none. The
      Patronus that stood before it could brook no compromise, it would
      accept nothing less than complete and total dominance over the
      cowering wretch before it. In any compromise between good and evil,
      it is only death that can win, and so there was no compromise. It
      submitted itself fully and entirely, shrugging off the bonds that
      kept it within the confines of Azkaban and sped off into the
      distance, a specter of Death following its Master.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Moments Later<br class="calibre4"/>
      The Black Lake</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, so remember what I said... you're going to be safe, even
      though it might be scary. Well, no, it will be scary. Really,
      really scary. But I want you to tell me exactly what you see."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rainbow Dash was gawking at the hooded, black-cloaked figure
      that was cowering in fear at the edge of the lake. "He doesn't look
      that scary. In fact, I think he's more scared of us..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't let that deceive you. This... <em class="calibre7">thing</em> is..." Harry
      was internally debating whether it would make more sense to explain
      the nature of the Dementor to Rainbow Dash, or to let her come to
      the conclusion on her own.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rainbow Dash stuck a finger up to her lips and shooshed him.
      "Shhh. Don't ruin the surprise."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged at her. His Patronus was lurking in the trees,
      out of sight of Rainbow Dash, but keeping firmly in the light of
      sight of the cowering Dementor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">STAND</em>, it commanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Visibly shuddering, the Dementor rose and turned towards Rainbow
      Dash.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, I just... what, look at it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, gravely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, here I go," she said skeptically, taking a few steps
      forward, completely unaware as to the nature of the hole in the
      world before her. She stretched her hand out to touch the hood of
      the cloak, gently pulling it away from the creature.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then the world went mad.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
