<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Oh God Not Again pt2 - Oh God Not Again! Chapter 41, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Oh God Not Again pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s16" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 41</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: I do not own Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: I've <em class="calibre8">finally</em> reached my goal of having an average
      of 100 reviews per chapter! :) Also, I finally found my claim to
      fame: making Lockhart resemble something likeable!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"IT'S FINALLY HERE!" George yelled a week and a half later at
      breakfast.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"SAVE ME, HARRY!" Fred begged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry winced as they were only sitting three seats down from him
      and looked up to find that the post had arrived. To be more
      specific, it appeared that Molly had finally gotten around to
      creating the perfect Howler. Harry knew from years of her
      acquaintance that the longer it took after an incident she didn't
      approve of to receive a Howler about it, the worse it would be.
      Idly, he leaned over and muttered, "Muffliato" as he tapped the
      smoking red letter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're a lifesaver, mate," Fred told him seriously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know," Harry agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, it looks like you made the front page again. It's about
      the Playoffs this time," George said, eyeing the Daily Prophet that
      had just been dropped in front of Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Harry Potter and the Pentawizard Playoffs</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">By Rita Skeeter</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That sounds like the name of a book or something," Harry
      complained. "Although that <em class="calibre8"><span>is</span></em> an idea…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Doesn't the Daily Prophet have any other reporters?" Fred
      wondered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe they're on hand to check her facts," George suggested.
      "She spelled Krum's name wrong in her notes and didn't even bother
      getting Cedric's, so if that's in there then we'll know SOMEONE
      edited it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Harry Potter is a fourteen year-old-wizard attending
      Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. That is probably the
      first introduction he's been given since that dreadful night
      thirteen years ago that both orphaned him and freed us
      all.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Potter has been known by many appellations since then.
      The Boy Who Lived. Gryffindor's Golden Boy. The Boy Who Silenced.
      Hero. Pentawizard Playoff Champion.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">As everyone is no doubt aware by now, the Triwizard
      Tournament was initially scheduled to take place at Hogwarts this
      year and Viktor Krum, Fleur Delacour, and Cedric Diggory were
      accordingly chosen to represent Durmstrang, Beauxbatons, and
      Hogwarts respectively. Then something unexpected happened. Fred
      Weasley was chosen to represent the newly founded Harry Potter
      School of Awesomeness and Harry Potter himself was chosen to
      represent an American school.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Harry's new Headmistress was not available for comment,
      but the Headmaster of the Harry Potter School of Awesomeness – our
      very own Gilderoy Lockhart – had this to say," Fred is an
      outstandingly creative, albeit unconventional, student and he has
      my full confidence."</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Weasley is not alone in his promise. Krum is an
      international Quidditch sensation from Bulgaria, Delacour is the
      daughter of a prominent French official and widely rumored to be
      part Veela, and Diggory is the top of his class and the son of an
      important ministry official.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">How does Potter stack up against this? Very well,
      actually. His test scores have declared him a prodigy, but he
      hasn't let it go to his head. A close friend of Potter's, Draco
      Malfoy, had this to say, "Harry's a good guy who doesn't take life
      too seriously. Of course, I can't vouch for his sanity, but we all
      have our faults."</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">When questioned about his entry into the Playoffs,
      Potter insisted that although he did enter to challenge his
      abilities, he only entered under the school bearing his name and
      his nomination as an American candidate surprised him as much as
      anybody else. Is this a conspiracy? Are the Americans trying to
      steal some of Potter's glory for themselves? This reporter intends
      to find out.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Potter is most often found in the company of his three
      closest friends, Ronald Weasley, Neville Longbottom, and Muggleborn
      Hermione Granger. Granger, along with the youngest Weasley,
      Ginevra, and the daughter of the Quibbler editor, Luna Lovegood,
      are the three stunningly pretty teenage girls competing for
      Potter's affection. Which one will be his source of strength
      throughout the Playoffs and, ultimately, win his heart? Only time
      will tell.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well that's just…" Harry trailed off, searching for the right
      words. "At least there's no mention of me crying this time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You cried during your interview?" George asked skeptically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh God no," Harry assured him. "I guess threatening to sue her
      for libel paid off then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, Harry, do you have any idea what the first task is going
      to be?" Fred asked. "I know they said they want to see how well we
      adapt to high-pressure situations and all, but if your scar has any
      idea then that would be great. The best pranks involve a good deal
      of preparation, you know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry snapped his fingers. "Oh, right. Follow me." With that,
      Harry made his way to the Hufflepuff table. "Hey Cedric."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nice article," Cedric greeted him. "I notice it was very
      interested in your love life and the other contestants and I seemed
      kind of like an afterthought. Well, except Fred, but then he was
      from the HARRY POTTER school, so…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "You should be glad you made the article at all.
      I think they actually hired fact checkers after that one time I
      sued them for libel."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because of those articles about your secret life as a drag
      queen?" Cedric asked. "I remember those."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grimaced. "So do I, unfortunately. I think that's why they
      avoiding mentioning the fact that my 'school' is girls-only.
      Anyway, my scar knows what the first task is so if you want to
      know, I'd suggest you follow me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric immediately stood and followed him out of the Great Hall
      and into a deserted classroom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's he doing here?" Fred complained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, where's your Gryffindor Pride, Harry?" George added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry guys," Harry said apologetically. "But my scar has no
      Gryffindor Pride and it won't tell me what the task is unless I
      tell you both, so…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what is it?" Cedric inquired.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dragons," Harry said simply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I must be going deaf," George announced.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Me too," Fred said. "Because I could have sworn that I just
      heard you say 'dragons.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There is no way in hell Dumbledore would expect us to fight a
      dragon," Cedric said flatly. "I refuse to believe it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, we're not fighting them," Harry agreed. "Although that
      might actually be easier, all things considering."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His fellow champions and George all paled considerable,
      wondering what could possibly involve a dragon but be
      <strong class="calibre9">worse</strong> than fighting it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're supposed to steal a golden 'egg' from nesting
      mothers."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, now that I think on it, fighting a dragon wouldn't be
      all that bad, really," Fred said, sounding strangely
      high-pitched.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't worry, we'll think of something," George assured him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're positive?" Cedric asked seriously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded grimly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric closed his eyes and took a deep breath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged apologetically and hurried off to Potions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On the way he ran into Luna. "I got a reply from the
      Headmistress," she told him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?" Harry was curious. "What did it say?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna just smiled at him and continued on her way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When he got there, he found the Slytherins 'discussing' the
      article and was immediately grateful at how much…milder this
      version was than the previous one. Even if he didn't really
      remember what the first article Skeeter had penned about him had
      said, he knew it had been painful. And that had been when she'd
      been on his side!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stunningly pretty? GRANGER?" Pansy was shrieking. "What was she
      judged against – a chipmunk?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wouldn't talk if I were you, Pansy," Harry said as he came to
      stand behind his rather vexed Muggleborn friend. "Seeing as I heard
      you came in third."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Seeing as how Harry already knew what the task was and what he
      would be doing against it, he opted for sleep rather than meeting
      Hagrid and seeing the proof of it once more. He was kind of curious
      what fifth kind of dragon they would be flying in, but not enough
      to get out of bed for it. After all, he was a growing boy. Kind
      of.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The day of the First Task, McGonagall personally escorted him
      there. "Now don't panic," she told him. "Just keep a cool
      head…we've got wizards standing by to control the situation if it
      gets out of hand…the main thing to do is just do your best and
      nobody will think any worse of you. Are you alright?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry snorted. "Why Professor, anybody would think that trying
      to steal an egg from a nesting mother dragon was <em class="calibre8">dangerous</em>
      and kind of irresponsible to ask of a fourteen-year-old."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know?" McGonagall looked surprised. Harry merely tapped his
      forehead and she sighed. "Of course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't sweat it; I'll be fine," Harry promised. "Besides, if I
      don't kick some major ass on this, Draco and the Hufflepuffs will
      never let me live it down."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you're sure," McGonagall said dubiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am," Harry said firmly. "Thank you for the concern,
      though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall nodded jerkily and left him at the entrance to the
      tent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So…am I the only one who thinks that just by showing up we
      should probably be put on suicide watch?" Harry said brightly as he
      entered the tent, breaking the gloomy atmosphere.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You should have been on it the minute you went after that troll
      third year," Cedric said frankly. Huh? Third year? That had been
      his first…right, Cedric was two years older.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How can you be zo calm?" Fleur demanded. "We could very well
      die!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In the first task?" Harry asked incredulously. "No way; if I
      die I'm going to do it at the third where all the press is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor Lockhart recommended much the same thing," Viktor
      said. "I vasn't sure vhether he vas serious or not, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, he's not Sirius," Harry made the obligatory pun, "but you
      should take him seriously. If you want your death to be remembered,
      going during the third task is the way to go, right Cedric?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why are you asking me?" Cedric asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Graveyard?" Harry said, seemingly random.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Run like hell," Cedric replied, having been asked this a good
      four dozen times since he'd been chosen as a champion alone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't vant to die during the Playoffs at all," Viktor
      protested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "Then don't worry about it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Only champions in the tent, boys," Ludo Bagman said, eyeing
      Fred and George, who were plotting in a corner. "Now I may not know
      which of you is which, but only one of you is a champion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"About that," George said. "The Goblet of Fire said that the
      champion was 'Fred Weasley' and I legally changed my name last
      week, so I am now, legally, 'George Fred Weasley' and as such I am
      entitled to compete as well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bagman looked gobsmacked. "I'll…have to run that by the other
      judges, certainly, and I'll get back to you before it's your
      brother's turn. Now, the task is to collect a golden egg from a
      nesting dragon. There are five models and you will pick a miniature
      of the dragon you will face out of this bag." He waited, but the
      champions (and George) all spectacularly failed to react. "Oh come
      on," he said, annoyed. "You could at least pretend to be
      surprised!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Obligingly, Harry gasped. "Gosh, this has got to be the most
      unexpected event I've ever encountered! Dragons? I don't think I've
      even <strong class="calibre9">seen</strong> a dragon!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's a little over-the-top, don't you think?" Cedric
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "I'm reacting for six people here; take it or
      leave it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred was the first to choose and got the Welsh Green. Cedric was
      second with the Chinese Fireball. Fleur was third with the Swedish
      Short. Harry actually got to pick this time but somehow ended up
      with the Hungarian Horntail again. Viktor was last and he got the
      previously unseen Peruvian Vipertooth. Harry thought it was kind of
      strange that while <span>everybody else</span> got different
      dragons, he was stuck with the same one – and the hardest, too –
      but then again it might be kind of odd if none of them were a
      duplicate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Bagman pulled him outside for a 'quick word' right before
      running George's name change by the other judges, Harry cut him off
      with some advice. "If you're betting I win the Playoffs, make sure
      that your bet does not preclude a tie. I don't really see that
      happening, but you never know. I <em class="calibre8">have</em> been known to be
      stupidly noble like that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric and Fleur, Harry presumed, did the same thing against
      their dragons as he didn't see why anything he did would have made
      the do otherwise. Fred and George's attempt – apparently the judges
      had voted in favor of letting them both compete? Strange – lasted
      less than five minutes and Harry had to admit that he was curious
      about what they could have possibly done.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then it was his turn. Sure, he was older and wiser now and
      probably could have done something spectacular…but on the other
      hand, he REALLY liked to fly. And he was amazing at it, so why
      should he mess with success? And just to avoid the uncomfortable
      standing around with everyone wondering what he was doing or if it
      worked, he had Neville bring his broom down with him, so he only
      needed to summon if from the crowd.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After flying around for a bit and successfully irritating the
      Hungarian Horntail to the point where she left her nest to go
      chasing after him, he totally copied Viktor (who, since he had yet
      to go, would look like he was copying Harry) and cast a
      Conjunctivitis Curse at the dragon before swooping back down to
      grab the egg. Since – unlike Viktor – he had the sense to lure the
      dragon away from the eggs before casting the curse, she didn't
      smash any of the eggs so his precious points should be secure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What did you guys do?" Harry demanded as soon as he saw the
      twins. "And why is Luna a judge?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I transfigured a rock into a sheep and stuck a modified canary
      cream on it. When the dragon ate it, it transformed into a canary,
      Fred grabbed the egg and threw it to me," Fred explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If it turned it into a canary, how was it modified?" Harry
      asked, feeling oblivious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because they don't normally work on dragons," George
      explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We needed two people because while I was getting the
      distraction/immobilization ready, Fred was sneaky closer to the
      nest and then since the canary cream only lasted for a minute, it
      was all we could do to get it back to safety before it transformed
      back," Fred continued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As for Luna, when George and I went out there to see if he
      could compete, Luna explained that even though the Headmistress for
      the Salem Witches' Academy was too busy to come personally, she had
      authorized Luna to act in her place and that included judging,"
      George concluded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wow," Harry said admiringly. "I should have thought of
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That may have been too insane even for you," Cedric
      suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shuddered. "Don't <strong class="calibre9">say</strong> that!"f</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At that moment Krum stormed into the medical tent. "I did
      <em class="calibre8">not</em> copy you!" he hissed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I never said you did," Harry pointed out, confused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">They</em> do," Viktor said, gesturing towards the crowd.
      "And this despite the fact I could not even hear vhat vas going on
      from the tent!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "Sorry." With that, Harry went to go find his
      friends to see if they could tell him how the other champions
      did.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Apparently Cedric had <span>just</span> managed to avoid an
      injury when the dog he'd transfigured a rock into lost the dragon's
      interest, but his shirt did catch on fire, much to the delight of
      all of his fangirls when he was forced to remove it. Fleur managed
      to avoid getting her skirt on fire this time and as for Viktor…half
      his eggs still got smashed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Madame Maxime gave Fleur ten, Cedric, Fred, and Harry a nine,
      and Viktor a five. A little favoritism, but one point (or two,
      given the Second Task) wasn't going to win or lose anyone the
      Playoffs. Crouch gave Harry a ten, Krum a five, and everyone else a
      nine. Dumbledore gave everyone a nine except for Viktor, who got
      another five. Bagman gave Harry a ten, Fleur, Cedric, and Fred a 7,
      and Krum yet another five. Karkaroff gave Viktor a ten and everyone
      else a five. Lockhart gave Harry and Fred both a ten, Fleur and
      Cedric an eight, and Viktor a five. Luna, after some long hard
      deliberation, gave Fred a ten for creativity, Harry an eight for
      showing off, Cedric and Fleur a nine for a solid performance and
      Krum a five.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Vhy vas it alvays a five?" Krum wondered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "You smashed half the eggs you get half the
      points. That sounds fair."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So that's Fleur with 57, Cedric with 56, Fred with 59, Harry
      with 61, and Krum with 40," Hermione announced.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I'm currently winning because I have TWO people with
      blatant favoritism on my side. Although it pains me that my own
      school representative voted against me…" Harry said, shaking his
      head ruefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's what you get for showing off," Luna said sternly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Isn't that the point of the Playoffs?" Harry demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You were taking requests," Luna pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: I would have introduced the Salem Headmistress, but sadly
      I have a crippling hatred of OCs, so I figured it would be best to
      avoid them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Review Please!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
