<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Oh God Not Again pt2 - Oh God Not Again! Chapter 44, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Oh God Not Again pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s19" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 44</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: I do not own Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: While I don't like having anything resembling a pairing
      here, they kind of need dates (especially champion Harry) and as
      such there must be pairings, if only for the Yule Ball.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The boys of the castle were quite irritated with Harry for the
      next few weeks as they felt they now had to live up to his
      standards in asking girls to the Yule Ball. Of course, Ron and
      Neville had also added to the bar set, but did anyone care about
      that? No, they all just decided to blame Harry. It actually became
      somewhat of a competition to see who could come up with the most
      attention-grabbing proposal and hardly a public gathering went by
      without at least <em class="calibre8">someone</em> trying to secure their date.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Naturally, Harry was very pleased with the results.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The day of the Yule Ball, there was hardly a girl in sight after
      noon. While Ron wondered aloud what they could possibly be doing
      that took so long to get ready, Harry just thanked God that he
      wasn't expected to put hours of preparation into his appearance
      because in all honesty he probably wouldn't have bothered if he
      was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When the time came to go down to the dance itself, Harry spotted
      Luna standing at the bottom of the staircase. He supposed she was
      waiting for him, but she seemed quite engrossed in a discussion
      with the portrait next to her. Her dress also appeared to be on
      fire.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey Luna," Harry greeted her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello Harry, you look very nice," Luna returned the
      greeting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you. Is your dress supposed to be like that?" Harry asked
      a little uncertainly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna looked down to see if anything was amiss with her outfit.
      "You mean the flames? Yes, yes it is. You don't like it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh no, I do," Harry assured her. "I just wasn't sure if it was
      supposed to be like that and I would have felt really stupid if I
      complimented you on it and it turned out it wasn't
      intentional."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna looked amused. "I think even I would notice if my dress was
      on fire and it wasn't supposed to be, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You never know," Harry said defensively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose it is possible that I somehow failed to notice a
      flame-freezing charm," Luna agreed pleasantly. "Although the lack
      of a tickling sensation would normally preclude that possibility.
      Then again, I've never been very ticklish."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It could happen!" Harry insisted. "Shall we go?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Champions, over here!" McGonagall called at that moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think that's a yes," Luna decided. "Do you think she means
      the dates as well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "Probably. They really should be more clear,
      though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fleur Delacour had elected to go with Roger Davies again, most
      likely because Cedric (who Harry had heard had turned her down
      again and no one could believe he would actually do that even
      though he already had a girlfriend) was still with Cho. Harry saw
      how happy she looked and how it had taken years and Marietta
      literally dragging her to a therapist – Muggle, because there
      weren't any wizarding ones so the story had to be slightly edited –
      before she could be said she had come to terms with Cedric's death
      and hoped she wouldn't have to go through that again. She really
      was a nice girl, if a bit clingy. And teary, but that was
      understandable. Viktor, having not been able to even ask Hermione
      given how public Ron's asking and her acceptance had been, was with
      <span>Parvati</span> in a strange twist of fate. With any luck,
      he'd be more attentive than Harry had been. Then again, Ron was
      probably the only person who hadn't managed that feat and God knows
      if he did it again, Hermione would hex him. Fred had once again
      decided to go with Angelina and George was there with Katie.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Predictably, Luna's flames drew a lot of attention, but no one
      really wanted to ask. Well, not until Draco showed up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Potter, your dates on fire," the blonde informed him
      imperiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And your date isn't," Harry replied. "Hello, Pansy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pansy nodded at him but didn't say anything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Does this mean you're speaking to me again?" Harry asked. Draco
      hadn't said a word to him since complaining that he was going to
      have to put some effort into the asking aspect of the Yule Ball as
      he was annoyed by how much trouble he was going to have to go
      through because – as a Malfoy – he couldn't possibly let himself be
      seen as inferior.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pansy seemed to appreciate the half a dozen flying horses he'd
      rented out, however.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco shrugged. "It's been three weeks. I was actually going to
      hold out until New Year's, but my concern for the wellbeing of one
      of my fellow students spurred me to speak to you earlier than I'd
      planned."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry snorted. "I'm sure that's <strong class="calibre9">exactly</strong>
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Line up with your partner and follow me," McGonagall instructed
      once most of the attendees were in the Great Hall. When they did,
      everyone applauded their entrance. Harry just ignored it and headed
      to the large round table at the top of the Hall. The judges were
      already there: Bagman, Madame Maxime, Dumbledore, Karkaroff,
      Lockhart, Crouch and…Percy Weasley.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you doing here?" Harry asked, surprised.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As Luna is here in an unofficial capacity as your date, she
      asked me to fill in as representative of Salem," Percy explained.
      "And since I have two siblings competing, I decided it wouldn't be
      a bad idea."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"About that…" Fred looked decidedly nervous. "Perce, how angry
      is Mum about the whole Playoff thing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry killed Mum's Howler so we haven't heard anything since
      being chosen," George added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Percy seemed to consider the question. "You might not want to go
      home for Easter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That bad, huh?" Fred winced.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is so not fair," George complained. "George didn't even
      get picked."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Percy acknowledged. "But do you honestly think anyone
      believes that if Fred entered, you didn't as well?" Percy asked,
      once again displaying his uncanny ability to tell the twins apart.
      "And even if she did believe that, you legally changed your name in
      order to compete."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, well…" George said lamely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Interesting dress," Percy commented.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why thank you," Luna beamed. "So tell me…you work for Mr.
      Crouch, right? He mentioned you at one of our Judge meetings."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Percy immediately brightened and began talking animatedly with
      Luna about the Ministry. Harry idly wondered how soon it would be
      before the Rotfang conspiracy would come up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked over to see Fleur criticizing the decorations to
      Roger Davies, who would probably be offended if he weren't so
      dazzled. "We 'ave none of zis ugly armor in ze 'alls and eef a
      poltergeist even entaired into Beauxbatons, 'e would be expelled
      like zat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Poltergeists build character," Harry spoke up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Build character?" Fleur repeated skeptically. "Zhey are a
      menace!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True," Harry agreed. "A character-building menace."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would not attend a school with a poltergeist eef you paid
      me," Fleur declared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Considering your French, would you really be willing to attend
      Hogwarts either way?" Harry asked rhetorically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fleur's eyes narrowed. "And just what iz zhat supposed to mean?
      Zhat just because I am French I am not good enough for your
      'Ogwarts?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't say that," Harry tried to placate her. "But England
      and France have a rather…adversarial relationship, don't you think?
      And even if Hogwarts isn't technically in England, most of the
      students and staff are English."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose you are correct," Fleur conceded, looking as though
      the admission pained her. "And ze tacky decorating do not 'elp
      either. But zhen, what can you expect from ze English?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "Our Headmaster's always been more concerned
      with playing politics and keeping up-to-date on what's going on in
      the castle than interior decorating."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" 'Keeping an eye on what goes on in zhe castle'?" Fleur
      repeated. " 'Ow much time could zhat possibly take?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry snorted. "You'd be surprised. In fact, apart from the
      introduction of a bunch of foreign students, this year hasn't been
      too different than the previous ones."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fleur raised an eyebrow elegantly. "What could you possibly do
      zhat even <em class="calibre8">compares</em> to facing down a dragon?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "Two years ago I slew a basilisk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, yes, what an exciting tale that was," Lockhart promptly
      inserted himself into the conversation. "You can read all about it
      in my recent book <span>Baiting the Basilisk</span>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So how are Viktor's fame lessons going?" Harry inquired
      politely. "I tried asking him, but he just said that he'd never
      thought of anything the way you did, which I guess means he's
      learning a lot but not very helpful as far as his progress
      goes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I'm so proud," Lockhart beamed. "Two weeks ago, he managed
      to make it to class on time for the first time since arriving at
      Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry could hardly believe it. "Did he-?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He did," Lockhart confirmed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did what?" Roger asked absently, still staring at Fleur, who
      was beginning to look a little annoyed at his lack of both subtlety
      and blinking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He started carrying around signed pictures of him," Lockhart
      explained. "Mr.…Davies, correct?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Roger nodded, eyes never leaving Fleur. Harry knew Roger, kind
      of, and he really wasn't that creepy and stalker-ish on a regular
      basis. Being part Veela, while it may frequently get you what you
      want (especially with men, lesbians, and the bisexual), had to get
      annoying after awhile. No wonder she went with the relatively
      immune Bill Weasley.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And zhat helps?" Fleur asked. "Giving out ze signed pictures to
      the crowds of adoring fans that follow 'im everywhere?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yes," Lockhart nodded. "Although in your case there's magic
      involved, so it may not prove <em class="calibre8">as</em> effective. It might be
      worth a try, however."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fleur nodded, looking thoughtful.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">After the food was gone, Dumbledore cleared the tables away and
      conjured up a set for the Weird Sisters. Harry smiled a little
      nostalgically. He remembered back when they'd been popular, before
      the Seductive Seers had struck it big a year or so after Voldemort
      had been vanquished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry held out his hand to his date, who had actually managed to
      make Percy laugh a few times during dinner. Wonders might never
      cease, but he was pretty sure he didn't want to know. "Shall we
      dance?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As this is the champion's dance and everyone will be staring at
      us expectantly anyway, we might as well," Luna consented, taking
      his hand and moving out onto the dance floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Since when do you care what other people think?" Harry
      teased.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who's to say I do?" Luna retorted. "I just feel like dancing
      and I happen to like this song. It's Norberta's favorite, you
      know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Crumpled-Horn Snorkacks like the Weird Sisters?" Harry asked,
      raising his eyebrows.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Only Norberta," Luna explained. "Norbert likes the Beatles,
      Beethoven, and Cyndi Lauper."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is that so?" Harry asked, smiling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"His taste is kind of eclectic," Luna informed him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But he doesn't like the Weird Sisters?" Harry repeated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna shook her head. "He refuses to listen to anything that's
      insanely popular right now. Apparently it takes time to determine
      the lasting power of a group."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's pretty cynical for a mythical creature," Harry
      remarked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna laughed. "As an endangered species not certain of his own
      lasting power, it makes sense he would be concerned about such
      things."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few songs later, Luna and Harry decided to take a break and
      went over to where Ron, Hermione, Neville, and Ginny were sitting,
      talking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Greetings various friends and acquaintances," Harry waved as he
      sat down at their table.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I get it. I'm the 'acquaintance', right?" Ginny asked.
      "Because I'm not part of your exclusive quartet?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not that exclusive," Harry replied. "Neville got in."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, your first year," Ginny pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's just what you get for being a year and a half younger
      than me," Ron said solemnly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny whacked her brother on the arm. "Prat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Actually, he said 'friends and acquaintances'," Neville noted.
      "Both of those were plural. Since Luna was already with him when he
      greeted us, he must not consider another one of us besides Ginny a
      friend."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why can't you all just be both my friends <em class="calibre8">and</em>
      associates?" Harry asked. "Since I am both acquainted with you and
      your friend."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You could," Hermione told him. "If one of the definitions for
      'acquaintance' wasn't 'not a close friend.' And while Ginny could
      count as that, we three are supposed to be your <em class="calibre8">best</em>
      friends."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just for that I think I'm nominating you as my acquaintance,"
      Harry sniffed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excuse me while I go cry," she responded dryly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Seriously, Hermione, when did you memorize a dictionary?" Ron
      teased.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I haven't <strong class="calibre9">memorized</strong> one…" Hermione began,
      looking a little embarrassed. "Just any of the words I needed to
      look up at some point."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why do my friends hate me?" Harry wondered aloud.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because you go out of your way to make their lives more
      complicated?" Luna suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You say that like it's a bad thing," Harry muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think most people could use a little more complications in
      their life," Luna assured him. "But most people, sadly, are sheep.
      We've been over this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded his agreement. "So how has the dance been going for
      you guys?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione eyed her date. "Ron doesn't actually know how to dance,
      but I've read a few books on the subject and practiced with Ginny,
      so we're dealing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My feet have not been stepped on once," Ginny announced
      happily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's setting the bar kind of low, don't you think?" Neville
      asked her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny shrugged. "I had to help teach Hermione and while she's
      decent now…my poor feet…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It wasn't that bad!" Hermione flushed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm just glad that Ron couldn't be bothered to ask his little
      sister for help or I would probably never be able to walk again,"
      Ginny confided. "Although now at least Hermione can feel my
      pain."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not that bad!" Ron insisted. "But tell me…why's Percy
      here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's filling in for me tonight as judge since I came with
      Harry," Luna replied promptly. "We had a very nice conversation
      over dinner."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron looked rather gobsmacked. "About <em class="calibre8">what</em>? Don't tell
      me you listened to his reports about cauldron bottom thickness the
      whole time!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, actually he's been recently promoted," Luna answered. "You
      should probably talk more if you had to hear that from me, by the
      way. We talked a little about the Ministry. He had some very
      interesting theories, particular regarding the Rotfang
      conspiracy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The what?" Ron asked blankly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a conspiracy theory that the Aurors and other top ministry
      officials are plotting to bring down the Ministry through a
      combination of dark magic and gum disease," Hermione explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone stared at her incredulously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" she snapped. "Luna told me the minute she found out my
      parents were dentists."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It would be quite ingenious to involve Muggles in the
      conspiracy to throw us off the trail," Luna said seriously. "They
      don't even have to be fully aware of all the details to preserve
      the Masquerade."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Masquerade?" this time Neville was the one confused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, where we all of us with magic pretend that we don't
      exist and those without magic who know about us all ignore our
      existence," Luna clarified.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, that," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron looked gobsmacked. "Percy has a sense of humor?"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">After the dance was over, Harry and Luna ran into Cho and Cedric
      on their way back to the Ravenclaw Common Room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Listen, Harry…got a minute?" Cedric asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have several," Harry replied. "Why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have to talk to you…about the Playoffs. Privately," Cedric
      said, glancing at Luna pointedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna nodded obligingly. "Ah, yes, if you guys are going to cheat
      then I probably should not be here for this, even if I'm not here
      in my official capacity."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric looked dismayed. "We're not going to <em class="calibre8">cheat</em>, I
      just-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The less I hear the better," Luna interrupted. "Come on, Cho,
      let's figure out what we're going to tell everyone else about being
      the date of a champion since I'm sure Roger didn't get anything
      more than eye-candy out of the experience."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once the two girls were out of hearing distance, Cedric turned
      to Harry. "So…you know the second task, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I had heard rumor of such an event," Harry confirmed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right, of course," Cedric said, shaking his head. "What I mean
      to say is…do you know anything about it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was nearly positive that he knew more about it then Cedric
      did but unless he was very much mistaken, Cedric was trying to
      repay him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The bottled banshee shrieking is supposed to be some sort of
      clue," Harry reported. "When he first opened the eggs, George said
      it sounded like Percy singing and suggested that the task might
      involve attacking him in the shower. I think it's kind of
      disturbing his first thought was Percy showering, but then what do
      I know? I'm an orphan."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Didn't you live with family, though?" Cedric asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I did," Harry acknowledged. "Before Sirius came back from
      Majorca. But the thought of Dudley showering is enough to make me
      feel violently ill."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll just take your word for that," Cedric decided. "So you
      have no idea how to solve the clue?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"None at all," Harry lied. Cedric was trying to do something
      nice here and he had very much appreciated it last time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your scar doesn't have any advice?" Cedric pressed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "It knows I'm planning on putting doing any work
      on this off until the week before."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can still put this off but I felt I should tell you
      now…take a bath with it," Cedric advised. "That might help you
      think."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So now we're on the subject of me bathing," Harry remarked.
      "What is it with all the water imagery?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know," Cedric said neutrally. "That is strange, though.
      Really something to think about."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not quite sure what you mean by telling me to take a bath
      with the egg, but I'm sure something will occur to me. Thank you,"
      Harry said sincerely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric just nodded and turned to go.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why tell me?" Harry asked suddenly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why?" Cedric looked genuinely puzzled. "Well, you helped me
      with the first task, didn't you? I honestly don't know what I would
      have done if I'd been flying blind in there and you all had a
      plan." He paused. "Even if Krum's wasn't the most well-thought-out.
      It was just the right thing to do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled. "You're a good guy Cedric. Now again:
      Graveyards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was a pretty good sport, too. "Run like hell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: There, writing that wasn't so bad. Mostly because it's
      over, still.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Review Please!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
