<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Oh God Not Again pt2 - Oh God Not Again! Chapter 47, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Oh God Not Again pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s22" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 47</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: I do not own Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: About the "Hermione never liked me before I started being
      as annoying as I possibly can", that refers to how Hermione never
      had a crush on him (as far as Harry knew at any rate, which doesn't
      necessarily mean anything) in the original timeline.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Also, people have commented that Harry forgot to remind Cedric
      about the graveyards when they were finding out about the Third
      Task. Since Harry met up with Cedric before the scene started, it's
      entirely possible that he reminded him then.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The morning of June 24th Harry was probably more nervous than
      he'd been the entire time he'd been back, including right after
      Pettigrew had made off with the diary. While Moody was still
      mysteriously Moody, Harry really didn't feel he'd done anything
      that could possibly affect Voldemort that much, especially as
      they'd only technically met the once.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even though he still suspected that Voldemort might take
      advantage of all the publicity involved in the Third Task to start
      something – especially as from what he understood Voldemort had
      mostly just pretended he didn't exist for a year to try and get his
      hands on the prophecy, which wouldn't have been necessary had he
      died in the graveyard liked planned – he really didn't have much
      more of an idea about what was going to happen than anyone else.
      Harry thought he might know why things weren't playing out exactly
      like they were supposed to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Peter Pettigrew was rotting in Azkaban and not off running into
      Bertha Jorkins and then Voldemort in Albania. What did that mean,
      though? Was Voldemort still in Albania? If he had gotten tired of
      waiting, was he back in Britain? Had he found any of his old
      followers? Was he planning anything?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't know the answers to any of those questions but he
      wasn't about to take any chances. One thing he did know was that,
      even if it killed him, Cedric Diggory <em class="calibre8">would</em> live to see
      the 25th.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After breakfast, Harry followed the twins into the chamber off
      the Great Hall and wondered who, if anybody, would be there for
      him. Sirius would, of course, but Harry saw him all the time since
      they both lived at Hogwarts most of the year and the Weasleys would
      also be attending, but that was because the twins were
      competing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wotcher, Harry," Tonks greeted him, answering his question.
      Remus was standing next to her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you guys doing here?" Harry asked, surprised.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm Sirius's cousin so since you're his godson and he has
      custody of you, that practically makes us family," she
      announced.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I'm your back-up godfather," Remus explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry cocked his head. "Why would I need a back-up
      godfather?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus looked a little awkward. "Your parents…they loved Sirius
      to death, believe me, but they didn't necessarily have as much
      faith that he would make it to thirty. He was rather reckless after
      all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Was not," Sirius denied. "And I seem to have made it to the
      ripe old age of thirty-four just fine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's really not that old," Tonks interjected, glancing at
      Remus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is for the next year or so," Sirius said sternly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How can you possibly say you're not reckless?" Remus demanded.
      "I seem to remember one incident of reckless in particular that got
      you <em class="calibre8">unceremoniously thrown into Azkaban</em> for a good
      decade!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, seriously, what is <strong class="calibre9">with</strong> these widespread
      delusions about me having ever stepped foot in that assuredly vile
      place?" Sirius demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe they just find that easier to believe than you abandoning
      your tragically orphaned godson?" Tonks suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I said I was sorry!" Sirius insisted. "What do you think,
      Harry? I would ask Moony, but he's clearly delusional as well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry merely raised his eyebrows.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, Wrackspurts, of course," Sirius nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, Harry, is it true what Rita Skeeter wrote about you?" Tonks
      inquired.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probably not," Harry replied promptly. "But just to be sure,
      you should probably elaborate."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"About your love square?" Tonks clarified.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean 'love bisected triangle'," Sirius corrected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right, that," Tonks agreed absently, staring seriously at
      Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dear God, no," Harry assured her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks let out a sigh of relief. "Good. I mean, don't get me
      wrong: I really like you, kid, and if girls are going to chase
      after you there's nothing you can do but if I find out you're
      playing with them than we WILL have issues."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry gulped. "Understood."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As they started to make their way outside, they were stopped by
      Amos Diggory. Harry took the opportunity to see that Fleur was
      still checking Bill out. Well, that was one relationship he wasn't
      managing to interfere with, although who knew how an altered war –
      or, with any luck, none at all – would affect them?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Congratulations on getting that bill passed," Mr. Diggory was
      telling Remus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus nodded. "Thanks. It took awhile and I'm sure the bill's
      opponents having something planned, but I'll deal with that when it
      comes and just appreciate the fact that werewolves have full rights
      and legal action can be taken for job discrimination now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And Harry Potter…you must be so full of yourself since you're
      ahead of Cedric in the point totals," Mr. Diggory said, turning to
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Better me than you," Harry muttered automatically. When he
      realized what he's said, his eyes widened in mild horror. "I mean,
      er…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Even with this slight disadvantage don't count Ced out yet,"
      Mr. Diggory said loudly, opting to ignore Harry's inopportune
      comment. "You may have a head start but he can still come from
      behind and beat you. After all, he's done it before."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dad," Cedric looked embarrassed. "Not this again…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry snorted. "Like the rest of the Quidditch team would let me
      forget. And I've had an advantage over Cedric in the last two
      tasks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what's that?" Mr. Diggory demanded, outraged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's too noble," Harry explained. "That will probably serve him
      well in life – assuming it doesn't get him killed. And speaking of:
      Cedric, graveyards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Run like hell," Cedric answered without having to think.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mr. Diggory looked confused. "What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Later," Harry quickly said, darting out of the chamber and
      leaving Cedric to try and explain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you sure you're going to be okay?" Sirius asked him right
      before he joined the other champions at the start of the maze.
      Harry had enjoyed his day with Remus, Tonks, and his godfather, but
      it had been somewhat less enjoyable than it might have been since
      he knew very well what could happen and hoped that even if he
      couldn't avoid it, it at least wouldn't get any worse than it had
      been the first time around.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not even slightly," Harry confessed. "But what else can I
      do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know," Sirius answered the rhetorical question. "But
      remember, the minute you need me, Dumbledore, or a whole squadron
      of Aurors, contact me on the mirror and tell me where you are. If
      you're in the graveyard, getting there shouldn't be a problem but
      even if you go somewhere else, we'll find some way to deal with
      this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks," Harry said, before quickly taking his place amongst
      the champions. It always unnerved him when his godfather stated
      acting serious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After all, that meant that they were probably doomed.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had been in the maze for at least half an hour now and he
      was really starting to appreciate Crouch Jr's efforts the first
      time around in clearing his path as he'd had to deal with no less
      than four over-sized blast-ended skrewts, three acromantula, and
      some kind of snake. The snake hadn't been so bad to deal with,
      actually, as it had immediately stopped trying to bite him once it
      saw that he was a 'speaker.' He didn't quite get why snakes were
      always so eager to listen to him just because he happened to speak
      their language – or at least he would for as long as he was a
      Horcrux – but then again, if Pareseltongue was really even half as
      rare as he'd been lead to believe, none of the snakes he
      encountered (save the basilisk) had likely encountered another
      Parselmouth and thought he was a novelty of some kind. Which he
      was. Still, convincing the snake not to follow him around the maze
      had eaten up a good chunk of his time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned a corner and nearly walked right into a sphinx. He
      groaned. "Not again…I'm really no good at riddles."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is your bad luck to have met me then," the sphinx
      replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can I just go?" Harry asked. "Seriously, I'll find a different
      way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," the sphinx replied. "I'm going to ask you a riddle and if
      you get it right you can go past."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And if I get it wrong or try to leave, you'll attack, right?"
      Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sphinx nodded. "Right. Do not worry, though, as I am not
      permitted to kill you. That said, healers can work all sorts of
      miracles these days."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't suppose it's a spider, is it?" Harry asked wryly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sphinx blinked. "You don't suppose what is a spider? Me? I
      quite clearly <em class="calibre8">not</em>. And when was the last time a talking
      spider asked you riddles, anyway?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't actually recall that ever happening," Harry answered.
      "That said, I meant 'was that the answer', although your reaction
      tells me that it's not. How about 'a man'? That's the answer to the
      stereotypical sphinx riddle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As if I would be so unoriginal," the sphinx sniffed. "Now stop
      guessing and let me ask you the riddle before I decide to start
      counting those guesses and land you in a coma."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry opened his mouth to tell the sphinx to go ahead and ask
      him, but decided not to push him luck and just gestured to her
      instead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sphinx smiled lazily. "That's better. Now, let's see…They
      have not flesh, nor feathers, nor scales, nor bone. Yet they have
      fingers and thumbs of their own. What are they?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stared at her for a minute. "Come again?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Patiently, the sphinx repeated, "They have not flesh, nor
      feathers, nor scales, nor bone. Yet they have fingers and thumbs of
      their own. What are they?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No flesh, feathers, scales, or bones…that rules out all living
      things…except plants, I guess, but they don't have fingers or
      thumbs. The no b ones things rules out most dead things as well. I
      guess it <em class="calibre8">could</em> be a statue, but that's just if I were
      thinking literally and not taking into account the fact that this
      is a riddle…Hey," Harry stopped as a thought occurred to him. "Is
      it okay if I think out loud?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sphinx shrugged. "Be my guest. That's bound to be more
      interesting than watching you just stand there for five minutes.
      You'll have to tell me what you've decided on once you have your
      answer, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can do," Harry said gratefully. "I think better verbally
      anyway. Let's see…fingers and thumbs could be a kind of
      measurement? I know you can have a finger of either whiskey or
      scotch but I can't think of anything for thumbs…well, there is
      having a thumb of gold, but I think that had more to do with
      millers and dishonesty or something like that…Let's see…if there
      are fingers and thumbs involved, there is probably a hand involved,
      but it's not on anything that was once living. A robot? I highly
      doubt a mythical creature would be up-to-date on Muggle technology,
      though, since most magical humans don't know anything. Still, a
      hand made out of synthetic material sounds promising, I just need
      to think more about something wizards might be familiar with. What
      do wizards do when they lose a hand? Use a hook? That doesn't have
      any fingers or thumbs, though. Wormtail had a silver hand, but
      since he had to have Riddle create that, it's probably too
      complicated or obscure for most people…Wait."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes?" the sphinx, who was starting to look a little dizzy
      watching Harry pace back and forth and think in circles, asked
      eagerly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How about a hand <em class="calibre8">covering</em>? Like a glove or a mitten?"
      Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You need to pick one," the sphinx said sternly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If it's not right and that's my guess, does it really matter
      which one I go with?" Harry didn't really see how it would.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course it matters!" the sphinx insisted. "You have to do
      these things properly or no one will take you seriously."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine," Harry sighed. "Let's see… I know one of them has a thumb
      and four fingers while the other has one thumb and one giant finger
      but I can't remember which is which…the one with the four fingers
      is more convenient than the one with the one finger because there's
      more mobility and all your fingers don't keep bumping into each
      other. 'Mitten' is a much nicer name than 'glove' so you would
      think it would go with the nicer hand covering, but I think it
      might actually be the opposite. Since the riddle asked for
      'fingers' to be plural, that would make my answer glove."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sphinx took a moment before answering. "That was so much
      more complicated than it had to be."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We all have our faults!" Harry said defensively, crossing his
      arms. "One of mine is that I'm really bad at riddles."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And can't tell the difference between gloves and mittens," the
      sphinx added helpfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glared at her. "I can SO tell them apart! I just get the
      names mixed up! It happens." He paused. "But yes, that too. So…was
      I right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, you can go," the sphinx said, stepping aside to allow him
      to pass. "And make sure to brush up on your riddles!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The sad thing is I <strong class="calibre9">did</strong> brush up on them!"
      Harry called back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He turned a few more corners and stopped short at the sight of
      Voldemort laughing over Cedric's body. "What? But…how? There's no
      way he got to Hogwarts so easily, it took Draco a year…Boggart."
      Cedric dying and Voldemort returning <em class="calibre8">would</em> be his greatest
      fear at the moment, wouldn't it, as they both could happen,
      <span>had</span> happened that night. "Riddikulus!" he cried,
      remembering the cheer that had gone up when Voldemort had finally
      lay dead after yet ANOTHER botched Avada Kedavra sent Harry's way.
      You'd think he would have learned his lesson the first time and
      used a different, equally lethal curse, but apparently h e couldn't
      be bothered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Point me," Harry whispered. Following the path the spell had
      indicated, he reached the clearing the cup was in just as Cedric
      and the twins did.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't believe the hedge tried to <em class="calibre8">eat</em> us," Fred said
      before he noticed them. "I mean, what is wrong with these people
      that they would stick us in a maze with deadly creatures when the
      maze itself was trying to kill us?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know, but look," George said, pointing to the Cup.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where are Viktor and Fleur?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Back there somewhere," Cedric gestured vaguely behind him. "I
      haven't seen any sparks nor heard any screams so they're probably
      fine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What now?" Fred asked. "We lunge for the cup? Whoever touches
      it first gets it? We're all about equal distance away so it could
      be anyone's game but that seems like such an arbitrary way of
      deciding it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We could try dueling for it," George offered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric shook his head. "No good, there are two of you and Harry
      and I are alone. Even if only one of you dueled it would still be
      three people squaring off and that's not even. One person would get
      ganged up on or just sit back and watch the other two exhaust
      themselves and that won't prove anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then what do you suggest?" George asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We all made it here at the same time so it's a tie," Cedric
      said simply. "Regardless of whatever school we've been entered
      under, we're all Hogwarts students."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We had hoped to get all the prize money," Fred said mournfully.
      "But you're right. A tie it is." He reached out for the cup and
      Cedric did the same.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"NO!" Harry burst out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The other three turned to look at him strangely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's wrong?" George asked. "Can't stand the thought of a
      tie?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "I'm all for tying. In fact, you three can
      win and I don't have to get any credit for all I care. I just need
      to be the first one to touch that cup."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why?" Cedric asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry hesitated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you don't tell us, we're going to assume that everything's
      fine and grab it," Fred warned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed. "I don't know for sure but there's every chance
      that that cup is a Portkey that will bring us to a graveyard where
      a madman is trying to revive Voldemort."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A graveyard, you say?" Cedric asked thoughtfully. "Is that why
      you kept saying-?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Harry admitted. "It was."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why didn't you warn us, then, if you were so concerned?" George
      demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Honestly, it didn't occur to me," Harry confessed. "Sorry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why don't you find out one way or another and throw a rock at
      the cup or something?" Fred suggested. "If it's a Portkey, we'll
      just send up sparks and explain that the cup is gone. If not, then
      we'll just pretend it never happened."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That won't work," Cedric said, shaking his head. "The Cup IS a
      Portkey one way or another but to prevent the winner from getting
      ambushed on their way out, the Cup is supposed to take us to the
      outside of the maze."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, Harry hadn't known that but it would explain why grabbing
      the Cup in the graveyard had taken him to the outside of the maze
      instead of the center or even took him anywhere at all as if Crouch
      Jr had been the one to make it a Portkey at all as he wouldn't want
      to give him a chance to escape. Although flinging Harry's body at
      it and letting the world know Voldemort was back might have
      appealed to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can let the Portkey go then send up sparks and as we're the
      only ones here and all agree to tie we can explain that we all won
      when someone comes to check on us," Fred suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I…I need to go there," Harry disagreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why?" Cedric demanded. "If you're right you'll just get
      yourself killed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Possibly, but I need to stop him and now's my best chance,"
      Harry said urgently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't like it," George said, shaking his head. "If you're
      wrong you end up winning the Playoffs and if you're right you go
      alone to some sort of ritual with a madman and get yourself
      killed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It has to be done," Harry said shortly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then we're going with you," Cedric told him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The twins nodded their agreement, their faces full of grim
      determination.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I need to do this by myself," Harry insisted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're standing closer than you," Fred pointed out. "If you
      don't say yes we'll touch the Portkey without you and see what
      happens."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That couldn't happen. They would just get themselves killed and
      as he was still a Horcrux literally had NO chance of stopping
      Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright," he agreed reluctantly. "Cedric and either Fred or
      George can come, too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why only one?" George demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because one of us needs to stay here and send up sparks. By the
      time you're rescued, you'll know if we're outside of the maze or if
      we need you to tell Dumbledore that the Cup was a Portkey, we
      reached it, and now we're missing," Harry explained. He pulled out
      his invisibility cloak and two daggers and handed them to Cedric.
      "And whoever goes with me needs to keep this on at all times. They
      won't kill me right away, but they will kill you. And if you see a
      giant snake, kill it with one of these or the Avada Kedavra."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay," Cedric agreed solemnly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The twins exchanged looks. Finally, George took a deep breath
      and said, "You go. Your name came out of the Cup so you go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you sure?" Fred looked torn.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just…don't you DARE die on me," George said, his voice a little
      higher than normal. "Or I swear to God…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wouldn't dream of it," Fred promised.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the three designated graveyard travelers, reached out to
      touch the Portkey, Harry really hoped he'd be able to keep that
      promise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: Sorry about the cliffhanger, but it has to be split into
      multiple parts because of the length (I don't need to be told I
      <em class="calibre8">could</em> make it longer and combine this and the next chapter
      since the chapters for this story are not 5-6K and other people
      having longer chapters has nothing to do with me) and before anyone
      asks, Harry couldn't lunge for the cup or try to stupefy them
      because their hands were right above the Cup's and his was further
      away so if he tried, they would have activated the Portkey and he
      knew it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Review Please!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
