<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Oh God Not Again pt2 - Oh God Not Again! Chapter 49, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Oh God Not Again pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s24" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 49</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Note: I know we really have no idea when Voldemort made Nagini a
      Horcrux, but leaving her alive is a bad idea in case she is, so
      hence the orders to get rid of her. Also, I don't know if Crouch
      specifically denied being a Death Eater, but when Harry saw him in
      the Pensieve, he was certainly claiming innocence about the
      Longbottom's and I doubt 'well, yeah, I worship Voldemort and am
      incredibly put out that he's gone but I have nothing to do with an
      expedition to try and find him' would work very well and when Harry
      asked Dumbledore if it was a possibility that Crouch was innocent
      at the time, Dumbledore didn't tell him that he admitted to being a
      Death Eater (and since he was supposedly dead why not tell him? He
      explained all about Neville's parents, after all) so that was most
      likely not a matter of public record. And simply denying trying to
      find Voldemort would probably be enough for him to claim Crouch
      abandoned him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And yeah, the ending of the last chapter was mean. But it was
      really either that or the Avada Kedavra…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: I do not own Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Master! I'm being attacked!"</em> Nagini hissed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort stiffened. <em class="calibre8">"Attacked? Who would dare-?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Looks like Fred and Cedric were making their move. Only one
      thing to do. Harry took a deep breath. Even though he'd already
      survived death…well, a few times, really, that didn't mean that he
      was looking forward to sacrificing himself on purpose. Although the
      fact he was choosing now to try and keep focus off of Cedric and
      Fred should mean that they'd be protected once he got back, right?
      That was how it worked before, at any rate. Of course, then he
      really thought he'd stay dead but it was entirely possible that
      Voldemort would use the Killing Curse and he'd either stay a
      Horcrux or stay dead. Oh, who was he kidding? Voldemort had only
      ever shown himself capable of using the three Unforgiveable Curses
      around him. Although he might have used something else that one
      time he was fighting Dumbledore in the Ministry…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Two boys, Master, they-"</em> Nagini abruptly cut off with
      a hiss of pain. She was either dead or would be soon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Quit stalling</em>, Harry mentally ordered himself.
      Reluctantly, he stepped out from behind his stone shield. "You
      can't kill me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can try," Voldemort said simply, raising his wand. "Avada
      Kedavra!"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked around him idly. He was at King's Cross again. "Why
      couldn't I be more creative than using a train station as a
      metaphor for being at a crossroads?" Harry murmured.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know, but personally I blame your mother," a voice said
      from behind him. "A true Marauder would never be that
      unoriginal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry spun around and came face to face with a man who looked
      very much how he would look in a few years sans the bright green
      eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, and you might want to be aware of the fact that you're
      naked," James Potter said helpfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced down. So he was. Of course, the moment he became
      aware of that, he was in robes. Why did he need to be naked in the
      first place? Honestly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" 'Original' as far as infantile pranks go, maybe," a girl said.
      Harry glanced over and saw Lily Potter. "But you never were one for
      symbolism."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can't we just blame your relatives for not believing in
      creativity and attempting to stifle it in our son?" James
      implored.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I refuse to admit a relation to that man," Lily insisted,
      crossing her arms. "Petunia's just scared and should never, ever
      under any circumstances EVER have been placed in charge of a
      magical child. The son…well, he'll probably grow up sooner or
      later."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mum? Dad?" Harry could hardly believe it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who were you expecting? Dumbledore?" James asked with a
      sardonic smirk. "Hate to break it to you, kid, but he's not quite
      dead in this timeline yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's eyes widened. " 'This timeline'? Then…you know?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, we're dead. And possibly just manifestations of your
      subconscious mind," Lily said gently. "Of course we know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And?" Harry asked, wondering what their verdict would be on all
      of this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I couldn't be more proud," James said beaming. "Aside from that
      Luna girl and Sirius – who really doesn't count because he also
      came back – no one knows about the whole time travel thing and
      you've done an admirable job to create chaos." Lily nudged him.
      "Oh, and help people. That was good, too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"While I may not strictly approve of all the willful mayhem,"
      Lily said. "Or just up and leaving your original timeline, the fact
      that you're trying to end everything now before people start dying
      is admirable and I hope you succeed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't meant to come back," Harry pointed out. "I wasn't
      really thinking, it's just…it was like I was compelled to. And once
      I got here, I had no idea how to go back so I just figured I might
      as well make the best of it. Really my school days, though…I swear,
      I might have fun sometimes, but I don't recommend trying it.
      Repeating your schooling is one of the most tedious things I have
      ever encountered. If I didn't try to liven things up, God knows I
      would have gone mad by now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's assuming you're not mad already," Lily said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "True. But as long as I'm not violently insane,
      I suppose it doesn't matter. Mental stability's overrated
      anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hear, hear!" James cheered. "Tell Sirius that I don't blame him
      for picking Peter to be our Secret Keeper, will you? Yeah, that
      turned out to be a really stupid idea, but Lily and I were the ones
      to agree to it in the end, so…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will," Harry said solemnly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's still a horrible influence, though. And tell Severus I
      forgive him," Lily requested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If I call him 'Severus' he's likely to hex me but…alright,"
      Harry agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I still don't see what you see in him," James said, shaking his
      head ruefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He was my best friend for years," Lily reminded him. "And even
      if the prophecy getting out was all his fault, we would have been
      in danger anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not <em class="calibre8">that</em> much danger," James countered. "Besides, he
      was a Death Eater!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" 'Was' being the operative word," Lily told him. "He's still
      alive, but God knows he hasn't been acting like it for thirteen
      years now. He's back on the right side and needs to move past this.
      I'm hoping my forgiveness will help."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, I suppose if he died I might have to see him more," James
      mused. "Let's hope that doesn't happen for awhile."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have to go back soon, don't I?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily nodded. "Stay here too long and you'll lose the
      opportunity."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you for protecting me," Harry said sincerely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily smiled softly at him. "We're your parents, Harry. That's
      what parents do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We'll keep watching over you," James promised. "After all, we
      love you, you're rather entertaining, and we really have nothing
      better to do. Now do us all a favor and go kick Voldemort's
      ass."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll try not to disappoint," Harry said dryly.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">When Harry came to, he felt sore all over. Granted, he was
      already sore from those five Crucios, but his body felt like he'd
      been struck with five more while unconscious. Or was it while he
      was dead? That very well could be the case.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My Lord," Crouch was saying. "Are you alright?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm fine," Voldemort insisted. Harry chanced a glance over at
      the snake man and saw him rise to his feet. "How about Potter? Is
      he dead?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry hoped he could move quickly enough or stun Voldemort
      enough to do what he deeded to do. He sat up and turned his wand on
      Voldemort. "You. Wish."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort's eyes widened. "Pott-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry distantly heard the tell-tale cracks of Apparation but he
      ignored them in favor of crying out, "Avada Kedavra!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He wasn't the only one to say it and a jolt of green light
      struck Voldemort from the front and the back. As Voldemort fell,
      Harry locked eyes with his godfather, who slowly lowered his
      wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Took you long enough," Harry greeted him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're the one who wouldn't call for backup until Voldemort had
      gone and gotten himself reborn," Sirius countered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True," Harry agreed. His eyes felt heavy and his head was
      swimming. While he knew that passing out in a graveyard full of
      Death Eaters and, he supposed, Aurors about to go at it was
      probably not one of his better ideas, those Crucios and that Avada
      Kedavra were really starting to take its toll on him. "You better
      not let me die…"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">When Harry woke up, he was back at Hogwarts in the Hospital
      Wing. He sighed. "And I had <em class="calibre8">so</em> hoped to avoid this
      place…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then maybe you shouldn't have gone and faced down with
      Voldemort," George said from the next bed over.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you doing here?" Harry asked, confused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">George shrugged. "Damned if I know. I didn't even get to go with
      you. They said it was because of the maze but I noticed that Fleur
      and Krum don't need to be here…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where's Cedric? And Fred? Are they alright?" Harry asked,
      concerned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're right here," Fred said. He and Cedric were on beds on the
      opposite side of Harry. "What's the last thing you remember?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Passing out," Harry replied succinctly. "And seeing as how I
      was unconscious after that, I'm not quite sure what else I'm
      <em class="calibre8">supposed</em> to be remembering."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good point," Fred admitted. "So do you want to know what
      happened?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That would be nice," Harry confirmed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let me start by saying that you have got to be the craziest
      person I've ever met," Cedric said. "Voldemort was coming back to
      life and Crucio-ing you ever time you turned around and you would
      not stop taunting him!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have no regrets," Harry insisted, crossing his arms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You never do," Cedric sighed. "Although maybe if you had let up
      just a little, you wouldn't have passed out. Fred and I made sure
      to put a use that charm you showed us earlier, the Muffliato. We
      weren't sure what it did, but we figured it must have been some
      sort of modified silencing charm that let us hear each other to
      communicate while not letting other people hear us if you were
      willing to admit we were there while insisting we remained
      invisible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Anyone else who got close to you would just hear
      a sort of buzzing and unless they were trying to hear what you were
      saying – which they wouldn't have been since you were invisible –
      they wouldn't even notice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So Cedric and I weren't sure if we should intervene when you
      got stunned and that Crouch guy was doing some sort of ritual, but
      you didn't really seem all that concerned and we were looking for
      that snake. It would have been a lot easier if Cedric hadn't have
      been on the verge of a panic attack-" Fred started to say.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">You</em> try and shake off a year of conditioning that
      fast," Cedric interrupted. "Besides, I could see a lot of sense in
      Harry's suggestion to run like Hell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, seeing sense in anything Harry says doesn't speak
      very highly of your mental state," George noted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In my defense, a Death Eater was trying to bring back Voldemort
      and then more Death Eaters showed up," Cedric said defensively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just keep telling yourself that," Fred said patronizingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, I would probably be a lot more offended if that
      weren't true…" Harry spoke up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But since it is true you don't really care?" Cedric asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "Not really. But go on. What happened after you
      saw the ritual?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Death Eaters were Apparating all around us," Fred continued.
      "One of them appeared not six inches away from us and really
      freaked us out so we quickly moved back a little. We saw the snake
      but it was right by Voldemort and so we didn't want to risk it.
      After Voldemort started explaining his epic quest to kill a
      teenager, the snake slithered off and so when everyone was
      distracted by that 'duel' Cedric and I stabbed it to death and then
      Cedric cut off its head for good measure."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good thinking," Harry said. "When Voldemort was bodiless he
      apparently tied his life force to Nagini in order to make himself
      stronger and tie him to the physical world using some obscure
      ritual so in order to kill him, the snake had to go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you saying we were partially responsible for killing
      Voldemort?" Cedric look stunned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed," Harry nodded. "That should get you extra credit on
      your DADA NEWT if nothing else."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're lucky your godfather showed up when he did," Fred told
      him. "He must have brought two dozen Aurors or so. Once the
      anti-Apparation wards went up, the Death Eaters didn't stand a
      chance."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did anyone get away?" Harry asked, concerned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just one," Fred answered. "I don't know who it was,
      though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, Harry, my boy, you're awake?" Fudge asked as he strolled
      into the Hospital Wing. Rita Skeeter, Dumbledore, Sirius, and Snape
      were with him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, sir," Harry nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe you can help clear up some of this confusion about this
      so-called 'return of He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named'," Fudge said
      hopefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think it's obvious what happened, sir. Barty Crouch Jr. was
      driven insane by the Dementors and somehow managed to escape
      Azkaban. Since he's supposed to be dead, he probably had help and
      you should question him on that. He tried to do a dangerous,
      obscure, and probably illegal ritual to summon Voldemort's spirit
      back to this world in a makeshift body. The ritual heavily depended
      on a snake named Nagini, which Cedric and Fred managed to kill.
      Crouch brought me there to for 'Voldemort' to kill but fortunately
      my godfather and I managed to destroy it. Then, the fact that I'm
      here now means that our wonderfully competent Aurors took care of
      any others who showed up to see if Crouch's delusions had any basis
      in fact."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can I quote you on that?" Rita asked eagerly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "That's my official statement and I won't be
      saying anything more on the matter until I've recovered. Faux
      Voldemort Cruciod me five times, you know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fudge winced at that. "Well, it's a good thing you're alright
      and that that monstrosity was put down and the escaped Death Eater
      caught. I need to go deal with the fallout now but first...Who
      actually won the Pentawizard Playoffs? I need to give out the
      winnings and make an announcement?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was a tie," Harry explained. "Fred, Cedric, and I all
      touched it at the same time and that's how we got transported to
      the graveyard. Crouch Jr. must have made it a Portkey, although I
      have no idea how he managed to do that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"About that," Fudge looked a little awkward. "Turns out he'd
      been using Polyjuice to replace his father all year. Since he was
      busy with his little ritual, tonight he sent his father under an
      Imperius Curse to be a judge. It looks like it's wearing off so we
      should be able to question him about his involvement soon enough.
      Normally, there would be a presentation ceremony, but under the
      circumstance…" With that, he tossed a bag of galleons at Harry and
      left, Rita hurrying after him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, why did you tell Minister Fudge that that wasn't really
      Voldemort?" Dumbledore asked reprovingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because even if Voldemort got killed relatively quickly, the
      fact he came back once could mean that he could come back again and
      since the last thing Fudge wants to do is be known as the Minister
      who 'let' Voldemort come back, there is no way he would ever admit
      it. It's better to give him a nice public-friendly version than to
      have him try and destroy our credibility," Harry replied
      matter-of-factly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But Voldemort <em class="calibre8">can</em> come back and once more he
      <em class="calibre8">will</em>," Dumbledore said, looking older than he normally
      did.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Actually, Professor, you'll find that he won't," Harry
      corrected. "I know all about his Horcruxes. When I fought the Diary
      him in the Chamber, I showed it to Sirius and he recognized it as a
      Horcrux."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My family was always rather dark," Sirius piped up. "We decided
      that even he wouldn't be so careless with his soul as to hand it
      off to Wormtail for safe-keeping so there might be more. It took
      some time, but we eventually managed to get Hufflepuff's Cup from
      Bellatrix's vault, Slytherin's Locket from my house-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You had one of the Dark Lord's Horcruxes in your
      <em class="calibre8">house</em>?" Snape interjected skeptically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shrugged. "I already mentioned my family was dark. But in
      this case, my brother found out about them, turned on Voldemort,
      and took it but he died before figuring out how to destroy
      them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did you manage to destroy them?" Dumbledore asked,
      intrigued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fiendfyre, mostly, but we did use a bit of the basilisk venom
      Harry got from the Chamber," Sirius replied. "We found Ravenclaw's
      Diadem hidden here at Hogwarts and Slytherin's ring at Voldemort's
      maternal family's house not too far from that graveyard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then it was Harry's turn. "I suspected Nagini might be one so I
      had Fred and Cedric kill it and I realized I was one as well, so
      while I was fully prepared to give my life to see Voldemort
      destroyed, the fact that he used my blood to bring himself back
      meant that he anchored me to this world while destroying his own
      Horcrux."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You died?" Sirius looked alarmed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I told you I was going to," Harry pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, but still…I have got to be the worst guardian ever…"
      Sirius said mournfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There is very little you could do to make you worse than my
      previous guardians," Harry tried to comfort him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Considering they kept you in a cupboard, that's really not
      saying much!" Sirius shot back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, while I was dead I met my parents," Harry told him. "My
      dad said he didn't blame you and even if you suggested Pettigrew,
      he and Mum had the final say. Then Mum said that you're still a
      horrible influence and to tell someone named 'Severus' that she
      forgave him and that since he was still alive he should start
      acting like it. Oh, and Dad said that he wanted him to stay alive,
      too, if only so he wouldn't have to deal with him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape blinked at that but said nothing. Not that Harry really
      expected him to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your Mum said I was a horrible influence?" Sirius brightened at
      the thought. "I've still got it!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"These revelations are quite surprising," Dumbledore said. "Why
      didn't you tell me about your Horcrux Hunt?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was afraid that if I did you might shut me out because of my
      age and I felt it was something I needed to take care of on my
      own," Harry replied, semi-honestly. "Sirius and I had it covered
      and if we needed help, we would have asked for it. Besides, you had
      the same starting information that we did so you were free to make
      the Horcrux connection and start looking for them yourself
      independent of us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see," Dumbledore said. "I'll need to see the two of you in my
      office to see what our next move is," he told Snape and Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once the three of them left, George said casually, "So…about
      those winnings…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can have my share if you make me a partner in the joke shop
      you start with it," Harry said immediately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Fred looked gobsmacked. "That's over three hundred
      galleons."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Positive," Harry said. "I should make at least a third of that
      selling my exclusive anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric appeared to be thinking something over. Finally, he said,
      "Me too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">George looked at him uncomprehendingly. "You…too?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can have my share, too. I don't really need the money as
      we've got another year of schooling and so long as I can be a
      partner in your shop and see a return on my investment when you
      guys are wildly successful – which everyone knows you will be –
      then it will be worth it," Cedric said firmly. "Besides, after
      tonight I think that's exactly what everyone needs."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I…thank you," Fred said, accepting the bag of galleons Harry
      held out to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How can we ever repay you?" George asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"By making us ridiculously wealthy when you make it big," Harry
      replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And not using us as test subjects," Cedric added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And not letting your Mum kill us too much for this," Harry
      finished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We make no promises," Fred smirked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: So now that Voldemort's dead, there's only one more
      chapter to tie up the loose ends.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Review Please!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
