<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Oh God Not Again pt2 - Oh God Not Again! Chapter 28, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Oh God Not Again pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s3" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 28</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">"Can we PLEASE sit down now, Harry?" Hermione asked after Harry
      had dragged her, Ron, and Neville after him while he systematically
      searched the entire train twice. "If you haven't found whoever
      you're looking for by now; you're not going to find them. And look!
      Ginny and Luna are in the next compartment; let's go in there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But…but I haven't found Professor Lupin yet!" Harry
      protested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's eye twitched. "You mean to say we've spent the last
      twenty minutes traipsing around with all our luggage because you're
      looking for a <em class="calibre8">teacher</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh…yes?" Harry scratched the back of his head nervously and
      wondered why Hermione looked like she was two seconds away from
      beaning him with her trunk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professors don't ride the train with the students, Harry," Ron
      added, giving him a look that implied that he was convinced Harry
      had recently – or not so recently, depending on how you looked at
      it – suffered a severe head injury. "This is our third year; surely
      by now you've grasped that fact?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know!" Harry did not appreciate Ron's lack of faith. "But I
      just thought that Professor Lupin might."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why?" Neville asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…because he's weird like that?" Harry suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione sighed noisily. "At least you're not bringing your scar
      into it this time. Now come on, let's sit down before Harry thinks
      of somewhere else we can look."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, you didn't have to come with me," Harry said
      defensively as they headed off to join Ginny and Luna.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His friends exchanged looks. "Yes we did," they chorused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"After all, who knows what you'd get up to when left to your own
      devices?" Neville asked rhetorically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good point," Harry deadpanned. "After all, the last time that
      happened, Sirius and I defiled someone's grave, burned down a
      house, vandalized a family heirloom, and…expediated… Binn's journey
      to the afterlife."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a measure of how often Harry said things like this that
      they all completely failed to react.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure you had a good reason," Luna said cheerfully. "Except
      for that last one. I suspect for that you just wanted to spend some
      quality time with your new guardian."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's nothing wrong with wanting to connect to new family
      members, right Ginny?" Harry turned to the redhead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She studiously ignored him, as she had been doing all summer. No
      matter though, they had a long train ride ahead of them and sooner
      or later, she'd have to talk to him – if only to hex him.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Sure enough the next few hours passed very quickly with Harry
      annoying everyone by ending everything he said with a 'right
      Ginny?', 'what do you think, Ginny?', or something else to that
      effect.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then – just as the conductor made the announcement that they
      were nearing Hogwarts and might want to start changing – Ginny
      snapped, "Alright already, I'll talk to you if you just shut
      up!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry beamed. "Of course, I-" He broke off as Ginny glared
      pointedly at him and he mimed zipping his lips.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good," Ginny said, satisfied. "Now you boys get out of here; we
      need to change."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Obediently, the boys trudged out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wow, you broke through the silent treatment through sheer
      annoyance," Ron said, sounding slightly awed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And it only took three months," Harry smiled self-
      deprecatingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't feel bad, Harry," Neville said, patting him on the back.
      "It's not like you even saw her at all during most of June and all
      of July."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can come in now," Hermione said, opening the compartment
      door and slipping out, followed by the Ginny and Luna.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once inside the compartment, Ron and Neville began pulling on
      their robes while Harry had a staring contest with Hedwig. He was
      fairly certain he would lose as he didn't think owls were actually
      capable of blinking, but then, you never knew. As he did so, it
      occurred to him that he and Sirius had completely forgotten to get
      Ron an owl to make up for the trauma of having to actually spend
      time with Peter Pettigrew. Not that Ron was likely to accept
      'charity' or anything like that. Speaking of owls, though…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey Ron, when did your sister get an owl?" Harry asked, turning
      automatically to look at his friend.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…Yesterday. Remember? I wanted to know how she could afford
      that, even with the remainder of the Galleon Draw paying for our
      school supplies and she flew off the handle and asked if I was
      accusing her of being a thief and…well, it only went downhill from
      there," Ron recounted, a little sheepishly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Was this when you were shopping? Because remember, Sirius and I
      were committing various crimes then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There are ice cream crimes?" Neville asked innocently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry made a face at him, then remembered that he was in the
      middle of a staring contest with his owl. "You blinked while I
      wasn't looking, didn't you?" he accused. Disgusted, he turned back
      towards his human companions. "What's her name, anyway?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pigwidgeon," Ron said gloomily. Harry blinked, surprised by the
      coincidence, but then he remembered: Ginny had named Ron's owl last
      time, hadn't she? "And how do you not remember our fight? We were
      still having it at dinner last night until Mum threatened to hex
      us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry tilted his head back, trying to remember. "Really? What
      was I doing at the time?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You, Fred, and George were giving Mrs. Weasley suggestions,"
      Neville supplied helpfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, that's right! She never did take us up any of them,
      though…" Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a knock on the door. "Are you guys done in there?"
      Hermione called.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yep," Harry said, opening the door for the girls to file back
      in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did an Umgubular Slashkilter eat your robes, Harry?" Luna
      inquired politely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, no, nothing like that," Harry assured her. "I've just
      decided that wearing robes everywhere is a very sheep-like thing to
      do and so I'm not going to do so except when I'm in class."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you even allowed to do that?" Hermione asked,
      skeptically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "Who knows? Best case scenario: I'll lose us the
      House Cup this year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't you mean 'worst case scenario'?" Ginny asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry snorted. "Yes, Ginny. By 'best' I actually meant 'worst',
      how ever did you know?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh you know, I figured all those wrackspurts you and Luna are
      always talking about must have set up a colony in your head and so
      you get confused easily," Ginny replied easily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you for being so understanding," Harry told her
      dryly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My pleasure," she replied sweetly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, at least she was talking to him again.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">It was, Harry decided as he helped himself to some mash
      potatoes, almost surreal to see Sirius sitting at the staff table.
      It was even stranger to see casually pointing his wand at Sirius's
      heart while he ate and Remus keep shooting guilty looks in Sirius's
      direction. They really should have guessed that Remus's failure to
      contact Sirius once he was officially pardoned and the real story
      came out would be to his far too well-developed guilty complex. It
      had been awhile since Harry had last seen the only competent and
      not evil DADA professor he'd ever had and so he could be wrong, but
      Harry was reasonably sure that Remus usually looked a good deal
      shabbier than he did then. Harry would have been thrilled to see
      him regardless as he had missed the man a great deal in the six
      years he'd been dead, but the sight of him in brand-new robes
      was…just bizarre. Perhaps Sirius would know more. He made a note to
      speak with his godfather after the feast.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Welcome to another year at Hogwarts!" Dumbledore greeted them
      as he stood up. Instantly, the noisy Great Hall grew silent. "I
      have some staff changes to announce this year. Firstly, Professor
      Lupin has kindly consented to fill the post of Defense Against the
      Dark Arts teacher."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Most people had no idea who Remus was, but once Harry started
      giving him a standing ovation, the rest of the school soon followed
      suit. It looked like sheep mentality did come in handy sometimes
      after all. Remus looked astonished at the applause he was receiving
      and Snape's wand kept twitching towards Harry. Harry hid a smile.
      It looked like the presence of two Marauders was getting to him
      already and he idly wondered whether Sirius had done anything to
      him yet or if it was just Snape's well-deserved paranoia kicking
      in. After all, much as Harry loved Sirius now, when faced with the
      reminder of the boy Sirius had been at Hogwarts, he was forced to
      concede that they probably wouldn't have gotten along very well.
      After all, Sirius was violently anti-Slytherin while Harry rarely
      sought to provoke anyone as hostility found him often enough and
      Harry could never – not even as a first year – imagine being so
      irresponsible as to try to feed a classmate to a werewolf for the
      high crime of being annoying.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once the applause had died down, Dumbledore continued, "As to
      our second new appointment, well I am sorry to tell you that
      Professor Kettleburn, our Care of Magical Creatures teacher,
      retired at the end of last year in order to enjoy more time with
      his remaining limbs. However, I am delighted to say that his place
      will be filled by none other than Rubeus Hagrid, who has agreed to
      take on this teaching job in addition to his gamekeeping
      duties."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shot his friends a smug look (after all, they hadn't
      entirely believed him when he revealed Hagrid's new job to them the
      day before) before joining in with the rather tumultuous applause
      Hagrid was getting, even without him…<em class="calibre8">encouraging</em> his
      fellow students.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We should have known," Ron said thoughtfully after the applause
      died down. "Who else would have set us a biting book?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you did know!" Harry protested. "I told you yesterday."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Like Ginny told you about her owl yesterday?" Neville asked
      pointedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Touché," Harry acknowledged reluctantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And now, for our final staff appointment I am sad to inform all
      of you that after his many years of quality teaching, Professor
      Binns has decided to seek out the afterlife and so History of Magic
      will now be taught be none other than the recently pardoned Sirius
      Black," Dumbledore gestured to Sirius who – in keeping with his
      decision to pretend his prison stint had never happened – looked
      decidedly confused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius's standing ovation was lead by Harry, Luna, and the
      Weasley's (who had gotten to know him quite well during their month
      together in Egypt) and halfway through it, the applause was drowned
      out by fireworks that exploded and spelled out things like 'Return
      of the Marauders' and 'Chaos Galore'.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry actually had nothing to do with it, so it must have been
      all Sirius's doing. Remus, he noted, was looking nostalgic as he
      watched the fireworks, so there was progress being made on that
      front.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even better, George Weasley fainted at the knowledge that one of
      his heroes had returned to the castle. Or he might have been
      testing one of his inventions; who really knew?</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why are you guys following me?" Harry asked Fred and George as
      he made his way to see Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good question, Harry," Fred responded jovially.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Better questions: why did you not tell us that your godfather
      was one of THE Marauders?" George demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I guess it just slipped my mind," Harry replied honestly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Slipped your mind? <strong class="calibre9">Slipped your mind</strong>? How
      could it have slipped your mind?" Fred challenged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You knew they were our heroes!" George added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry cocked his head. "Did you guys ever mention that?" he
      asked curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I…don't know," Fred confessed. "Fred?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not sure, George," George replied. "But he should have
      known anyway!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Absolutely," Fred agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well you know NOW," Harry pointed out. "My father was Prongs,
      Professor Lupin is Moony, Sirius is Padfoot, and if you mention
      Wormtail in front of Sirius, he will probably hex you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor Lupin?" Fred asked incredulously. "I guess he must
      not be as straight-laced as I thought."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh no, he is," Harry assured him. "But he's still awesome, he
      just needs a little…<span>encouragement</span>, is all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why shouldn't we talk about Wormtail?" George asked. "Who is
      he?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Peter Pettigrew," Harry said shortly. "So needless to say,
      that's kind of a sore subject right now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The twins nodded solemnly as they reached the kitchen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why are you meeting him here?" George asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you meeting him in here?" Fred wanted to know. "Or are you
      just still hungry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sirius and I like the kitchens; why not meet here?" Harry
      asked, tickling the painting of the pears.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the portrait swung open, Harry heard someone who sounded
      suspiciously like Nymphadora Tonks complaining, "Oh come on,
      Sirius, do I have to spell it out for you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You could do that," Sirius said cheerfully. "Or you could just
      tell me what you're talking about."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why am I even here?" Remus wondered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because you love me and this is the first chance we've had to
      catch up seeing as how you've been avoiding me," Sirius reminded
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have NOT been avoiding you, I just– Hello there," Remus
      greeted Harry and the twins. "May I help you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can we have your autograph?" George asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And yours, too, Sirius," Fred added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright," Remus looked a little surprised, but signed the
      parchment he was given.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why do you want my autograph <em class="calibre8">now</em>?" Sirius asked. "I
      spent August with you guys."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But we didn't know you were Padfoot, then," George
      explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Should I be insulted that they didn't recognize me?" Sirius
      asked Harry, signing his name with a flourish.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nah, just blame the wrackspurts," he advised.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, yes, how could I forget about the dreaded wrackspurts,"
      Sirius grinned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's why they're so insidious," Harry explained. "So Tonks,
      what brings you here? Are you even allowed to be here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks shrugged. "Don't know, don't care. And don't start
      preaching about how I should, because God knows students aren't
      allowed in the kitchens, anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed. "Fine, fine…But what <em class="calibre8">are</em> you doing
      here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm waiting for Sirius to acknowledge my existence," Tonks
      explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you think I've BEEN doing?" Sirius asked. "I think
      arguing with you about whether or not I know what you're talking
      about is acknowledging your existence just fine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not what I'm talking about and you know it!" Tonks
      complained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It occurred to Harry suddenly what she was most likely talking
      about. "Sirius, you're the Head of the Black Family," he informed
      his godfather.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…I know," came the confused reply. "What does that have to do
      with what we're talking about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you ever get around to kicking Bellatrix out and
      reinstating Andromeda and Tonks?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius paused. "That did not occur to me, no. Now that you
      mention it, though, I will absolutely disinherit Bellatrix first
      thing tomorrow morning."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…And?" Tonks prompted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius looked blank for a second. "And…then I don't have to
      worry about the likes of her tainting my admittedly Dark family
      reputation?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about me?" Tonks asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, don't worry, I'll reinstate you and your mother, too,"
      Sirius said dismissively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"THANK YOU," Tonks said, looking anything but grateful.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Clearly concerned for his fellow Marauder's safety, Remus
      quickly jumped to his feet. "Now that that's settled, I'll escort
      you out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks smiled at him. "I'd like that," she said brightly, pleased
      at having achieved what she'd set out to do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're going to head back to the Common Room, too," Fred
      announced.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't stay down here too long; we talked to the House Elves
      into sending up food for our Back to School Party," George told
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright, I'll be there soon," Harry promised them. Once he and
      Sirius were the only humans left in the kitchen, Harry said, "We
      should make Remus and Tonks spend more time together; they're a
      really cute couple."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I cannot believe the word 'cute' just came out of your mouth,"
      Sirius said, horrified. "And why would I want to set Remus up to
      get-" he shuddered dramatically "- married?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because at least Tonks isn't boring?" Harry suggested.
      "Besides, I miss my godson. Surely you can understand
      <em class="calibre8">that</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose…" Sirius agreed reluctantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why wasn't Remus on the train this year?" Harry asked. "I
      looked for him, but I didn't see him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry," Sirius said in his best 'responsible adult' voice. "I'm
      not sure if you've realized this during the eight years you've
      attended Hogwarts, but the teachers don't actually ride the train
      with the students. In fact, the only adults on it are the snack
      cart lady and the conductor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know <strong class="calibre9">that</strong>," Harry rolled his eyes.
      "Although, in retrospect, it is horribly irresponsible to allow the
      entire Hogwarts population to travel together unsupervised for
      several hours while able to use magic. Seriously, people could get
      seriously injured. I've <span>seen</span> people get seriously
      injured. Hell, I've both been the injurer and the injuree in that
      situation…Oh, and the reason I was asking was because last time
      Remus was in our compartment with us on the ride to school and
      saved us from a couple of over-eager Dementors."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius thought about that for a moment. "Hm, well, last time I
      was a fugitive everyone thought was after you and there were crazed
      Dementors on the loose. This year, nothing really happened."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm kind of surprised about that. I guess I expected Pettigrew
      to escape custody or else, well…" Harry trailed off,
      embarrassed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius laughed at that. "What, you expected ANOTHER prisoner to
      escape from Azkaban?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…maybe?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you have any idea how difficult it was for ME to do it?
      Besides, I only managed it because I wasn't crazy-" At this, Harry
      coughed pointedly, so Sirius quickly amended, "Well, not overly so
      at any rate. I was sort of sane and I was an unregistered animagus.
      Now, as you're an animagus yourself, you should know how difficult
      it is to become one and not every idiot is capable of becoming one.
      In fact, I wouldn't be surprised if I was the only one in Azkaban.
      As far as Pettigrew is concerned…you, Ron, and Hermione were
      thirteen the first time that happened. Well, they were probably
      fourteen as it was the end of the year, but still! Ron had a broken
      leg, we had an unconscious Snape to deal with, Dementors attacked,
      and top it all off, Remus transformed. That was a very long string
      of bad luck on top of the fact that it didn't occur to any of us to
      simply stun him. Wormtail really is rather incompetent and as we
      got some competent people involved this time, there was no way he
      was going to be able to escape."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see," Harry said. "So if there isn't going to be a fugitive
      out to get me, what are we supposed to do all year? I…don't think I
      actually know how to handle having a school year without any mortal
      danger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm going to reconnect with Remus, you should 'get to know' him
      as well, I suppose we can have him and Tonks interact during
      holidays and any weekend she comes by to bother me, you can work on
      getting Ginny to at least like you, and I fully intend to drive
      Snape to the brink of madness," Sirius announced.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Speaking of Remus, what's with his new robes? I've never seen
      him in anything new and...it's kind of freaking me out," Harry
      confided.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh that," Sirius waved his concern away. "It would seem that
      Dobby accidentally replaced all of his second-hand things with
      brand new items after I may or may not have accidentally given him
      access to my Gringotts vaults and a galleon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did he react?" Harry wanted to know.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shrugged. "Not well, but what can he do? His old junk is
      long gone by now. And like I told him, the recent fugitive and
      Azkaban escapee cannot possibly look better than the normal wizard
      with a badly behaved rabbit for at least six months."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which means at Christmas..." Harry trailed off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm going to blow everyone away," Sirius confirmed. "Of course,
      Snape laughed at that, but everyone knows that he's just jealous
      because he has notorioiusly poor hygiene."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Does he?" Harry asked. "I always thought it was a result of
      working with so many potions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is," Sirius nodded. "Well, partly. But there are potions
      that will counteract the effects of all those potion fumes. He just
      doesn't bother because his hygiene skills have never quite been up
      to par."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you happen to tell him that? Because let me tell you, he
      looked rather homicidal at the feat tonight. What did you do to
      him?" Harry asked curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius smirked. "Nothing yet. It's going to take every ounce of
      my considerable self-control, but I want to wait until he's so
      paranoid he can't sleep before I start in on him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Spoken like a true Marauder," Harry grinned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius beamed with pride.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Review Please!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
