<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Oh God Not Again pt2 - Oh God Not Again! Chapter 34, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Oh God Not Again pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s9" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 34</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: I do not own Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: By 'no one fails their final year', I mean 'no one at
      Hogwarts fails their final year.' Apparently it's so easy to pass
      that you don't even need to TAKE the Exams in order to move up to
      the next grade, although those that do poorly on their OWLS/NEWTS
      might have some career difficulties starting out. And even in the
      real world, people usually don't fail for being stupid, they fail
      for lack of attendance and/or doing the work. Stupidity…not so
      much. I've seen some pretty stupid people graduate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Other note: Finally! Third Year's done! And I finished it before
      my class! It was kind of short, but I didn't want to just
      completely skip over it and since nothing was actually going on, it
      couldn't drag on too long. Next year will be interesting,
      though.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Exams were never fun. Even if you were twelve years older than
      everyone else taking the exams and had, in fact, literally done
      some of the spells in your sleep. And the complaining from everyone
      else about how 'difficult' it was to turn a teapot into a tortoise.
      Although that wasn't nearly as bad as Hermione moaning about how
      her tortoise looked more like a turtle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione," Harry said patiently. "We've been over this. You did
      the spell for changing a teacup into a tortoise, not the spell for
      changing a teacup into a turtle. And don't think Professor
      McGonagall won't get a letter from the new Magical Chapter of PETA
      for this. Seriously, what is with everyone and their constant abuse
      of animals?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, look at how everyone treats people who don't happen to
      have magical powers and ask me that again," Hermione told him.
      "Anyway, getting back to the fact that I'm going to fail-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, please, Hermione," Ron scoffed. "NO ONE fails. Ever."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Marcus Flint did," Hermione reminded them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry snorted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" she demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing, just that he didn't fail; he just showed up to play
      Quidditch," Harry explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione rolled her eyes at that. "Right. Like anyone would come
      all the way back to Hogwarts and convince everyone that they had to
      repeat a year just to play a couple of Quidditch games."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was silence for a moment as the three boys exchanged
      pitying glances.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I totally would," Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Me too," Neville agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They would have to pay me," decided Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right, because that's not pathetic at ALL," Hermione rolled her
      eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not pathetic," Ron corrected her. "It's Quidditch."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And even <em class="calibre8">if</em> it were possible for anyone to fail at
      Hogwarts," Neville quickly changed the subject as Hermione looked
      to be bracing herself on a rant about Quidditch fanatics. "Having
      the end result look like a practically identical species isn't
      exactly the worst thing that could happen. I mean, look at Ron's
      tortoise: it still peed tea."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, at least I didn't lose my head and accidentally turn my
      teacup into a flock of flamingos," Ron shot back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, right, Hannah Abbot," Harry smiled fondly. "One of these
      days that girl is going to learn to keep her head in an exam…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mine still wasn't as good as Harry's, though," Hermione pouted.
      "Professor McGonagall said she'd never seen a more perfect tortoise
      in all her years at Hogwarts! I just can't compete with that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't feel bad, Hermione," Harry reassured her. "McGonagall
      just thinks I'm a Transfiguration prodigy like my dad apparently
      was."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But all the other teacher's say the same thing!" Hermione
      pointed out. "Well…except for Snape." Snape had, as a matter of
      fact, docked Harry's potion five points because he had ended up
      using a modified recipe for the Confusing Concoction that Luna
      always swore by – apparently her mum had made the changes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't you mean 'Slughorn'?" Harry grinned. Right before their
      Potion's Exam, Sirius had apparently decided that since Snape's
      hovering tendencies were such a distraction, replacing Snape's
      unpleasant countenance with Slughorn's
      physically-incapable-of-being-imposing one would make them all feel
      better. Of course, half the class didn't even know who Slughorn
      was, but it was the thought that counted. Besides, Harry knew full
      well and was amused as hell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And it was a good thing that he WAS so amused, because otherwise
      he'd be annoyed that Hermione had, once again, refused to use the
      Cheering Charm on him for the exam. And to make matter worse,
      Professor Flitwick seemed to agree with her and let her do the
      Charm on somebody else.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hagrid's exam was a great deal more interesting than 'don't kill
      the Flobberworms', which Harry vaguely remembered it to be last
      time. This time, they all had to take a ride on a Hippogriff.
      Needless to say, this was Harry's easiest exam to date. The rest of
      the class vehemently disagreed with that, but the fact that no one
      else knew what to do was their own damn fault for making him deal
      with Buckbeak alone during their first class.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Their Astronomy Exam went okay, or so Harry was told. He kind of
      fell asleep ten minutes into it but his friends assured him that
      when Professor Sinistra came by to give him his oral exam, he had
      sleep-answered all of her questions correctly. So maybe that was
      the easiest exam ever.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In Herbology, Harry took great delight in making fun of his
      classmates for not knowing any charms to cast to keep from getting
      sunburned as they all turned bright red as the hours wore on. The
      Exam itself was pretty boring, but then, that was Herbology. Even
      if it was dealing with magical and potentially lethal plants, the
      fact remained that it was a class on <strong class="calibre9">plants</strong>. He
      just couldn't find it within himself to really care one way or
      another.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Muggle Studies was his first new Exam of the timeline and it was
      actually rather enjoyable. They basically just took a Portkey to
      London, were handed a few pounds, and told to try and act
      inconspicuous. Granted, they had to do a paper on the experience
      once it was over, but still, he and Hermione had had fun pretending
      to be tourists.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Divination was also easy, since it just took Harry making
      something up, which he had been doing on a regular basis ever since
      he came back to the past. Harry told Trelawney that he saw a group
      of people trying to bring Voldemort back to life and getting
      arrested. She jumped a little at the name, but Harry ignored it. He
      didn't <strong class="calibre9">know</strong> that was going to happen, per se, but
      so help him it had <em class="calibre8">better</em>. And if nothing else, Harry's
      vehemence seemed to impress the professor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Their History of Magic Exam was probably the biggest deviation
      from what had happened during the previous timeline's Exams.
      Instead of a written test about medieval witch hunts that nobody
      cared about and only ever ended up killing Muggles anyway, Sirius
      announced that everyone was going to have to write an essay about
      something they'd learned in his class that year ranging from 200
      words to 1600 words, depending on how well they did in his oral
      quiz. Basically, he called on them at random and asked them a
      question about what they'd covered that year. The first one to miss
      a question was out and had to write the 1600 word essay, the second
      one to miss a question had to write the 1400 word essay, and so on.
      Harry was kind of miffed because he'd lost to Hermione at the last
      second with 'What is the name of the orphanage Tom Riddle grew up
      in?' Like he CARED. Still, a 400 word essay was a piece of cake. He
      was tempted to go over to annoy his classmates who had to write
      more, but had forgone that for turning it in within ten minutes and
      playing Hangman with Sirius while everyone else wrote and Hermione
      revised. Needless to say, when her 200-word essay turned out to be
      a little over 3000, no one was exactly surprised. Annoyed, granted,
      but not surprised. And as the students were used to having their
      essays be a certain number of inches or – recently – pages, Sirius
      cast a spell on all of their paper to automatically list how many
      words they had so far.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's favorite Exam, of course, was Defense Against the Dark
      Arts. The obstacle course was great fun and reminded him a little
      bit of Auror training – on that first day where they were weeding
      out those who couldn't hack it at the <strong class="calibre9">real</strong>
      training. Harry, of course, finished first with full marks. This
      annoyed Hermione to no end considering he'd done it backwards, with
      his eyes closed, <em class="calibre8">and</em> without his wand. But that was just
      what she got for beating him in Sirius's class. There was no way
      his godfather would let him live down being outsmarted by a
      fourteen-year-old, even if it <span>was</span> Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't believe you took directions from our exam," Harry
      laughed at Ron, who had encountered problems upon reaching the
      Hinkypunk when he had – for some reason – followed its advice and
      ended up sinking wait-high into the quagmire.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What would you know? You had your eyes closed the entire time!
      It's not like you could have stopped it and asked for directions,"
      Ron replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I get that you're sore that I beat you so blatantly in this
      Exam," Harry told his agitated friend. "But you have to remember:
      this is <em class="calibre8">my</em> subject."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You had the fastest time yet!" Ron pointed out, still
      irritated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">My</em> subject," Harry reiterated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your modesty is really your best quality, Harry," Hermione said
      dryly as she came up behind them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey," Harry greeted her. "How was sonnet-spewing
      McGonagall?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She wasn't," Hermione answered. Upon seeing the twin looks of
      confusion on Harry and Ron's face's, she elaborated, "This time she
      rapping an opera about my failings."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry laughed. "Now <em class="calibre8">that</em> I have to see. I wonder if I
      can-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Ron interrupted. "I can see what you're going to ask and
      I'm telling you right now: she'll never do it, mate."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Spoilsport," Harry pouted. "Hey, what's taking Neville? He's
      been in there with the Boggart for over twenty minutes now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione and Ron exchanged meaningful glances.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," Hermione began, trying to be tactful. "His Boggart
      <em class="calibre8">is</em> rather intimidating…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is NOT-" Harry started to say when he was interrupted by
      Neville bursting out of the trunk with the Boggart, screaming.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh shut up," Harry said annoyed as Ron started giggling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What happened?" Ron asked between his laughter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville looked tentatively at Harry. "You
      wouldn't…REALLY…convert your old house into a haunted house would
      you? Or allow people to keep their name off of the list of
      registered animagus' by paying extra? Or give the House Elves a
      union? Or allow Goblin's to use wands on Mondays since they don't
      exist? Or make everyone wear pink on Thursdays? Or make 'Do the
      Hippogriff' by the Weird Sisters Magical Britain's national anthem?
      Or regularly import llamas and releasing them in random places?
      Or-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dear God, how many of those do you have?" Hermione asked,
      horrorstruck.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville shrugged. "Remember, I was in there for awhile."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed. "To answer your question, Neville: No, no I would
      not. But I do plan on becoming Minister one day, thanks for the
      idea."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With that, Neville promptly fainted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rolled his eyes. "He is SO faking." He nudged the boy with
      his foot. "Probably."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">This year, Harry didn't even bother sitting down at the
      Gryffindor table during the end-of-the-year feast. He knew he'd
      have to bail very shortly anyway when Dumbledore started reading
      off point totals, so he just made his way to the Slytherin's at the
      beginning of the meal.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why are you here?" a black boy Harry thought might be in a few
      of his classes asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't possibly be with the Gryffindors when we win the House
      Cup," Harry explained. "And I've sat with the Ravenclaw's a few
      times already recently."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why can't you sit with the Hufflepuffs?" the boy asked, eyeing
      him warily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blaise, don't!" Theodore warned, sitting down next to the boy
      in question – Blaise Zabini apparently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't what?" Blaise asked, confused. "I just asked him a
      question."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Talking encourages him," Theodore explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't NEED to be encouraged," Harry claimed. "I'm a
      Gryffindor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We noticed," Draco said, sliding into the seat beside
      Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And as for why I'm not at the Hufflepuff table…well, the first
      time Draco and I met we were talking about the House's. We decided
      that if we ended up in Hufflepuff, he'd leave and I'd defect. Since
      I'd have to come over here anyway if I went over to the Hufflepuff
      table, I decided to just spare myself a trip and come here
      instead," Harry explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How can you defect from something if you haven't actually been
      a part of it in the first place?" Blaise couldn't help asking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blaise!" Theodore cried.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry," he apologized. "But Draco's encouraging him, too. Why
      aren't you yelling at him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Theodore rolled his eyes. "<em class="calibre8">Draco</em>, God help him, likes
      Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not to mention my teenage rebellion," Draco added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That reminds me, are your parents still pissed?" Harry
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco snorted, but didn't say anything. Harry took that as a
      'yes.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore stood up then. "This year has been an exceptionally
      high-scoring year as far as House points go – the highest I've ever
      seen. In fourth place is Hufflepuff with 9307 points. In third
      place we have Ravenclaw with 9526 points. In second place we have
      Slytherin with 10094 points. And in first place, with the single
      greatest number of points accumulated during the course of one year
      we have Gryffindor with 13877 points!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's with these freakishly high point tallies?" Draco
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sirius gives out points like candy," Harry explained. "Not to
      mention his 'Fifty Points to anyone who he hear say 'Voldemort''
      thing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For once, I do not actually have any last-minute points to give
      out-" Dumbledore paused as Sirius leaned over and said something.
      "Correction, I award Harry Potter fifty points for finally saying
      'Voldemort', bringing Gryffindor's total up to 13927."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry banged his head on the table. "Damn him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dumbledore?" Draco asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, Sirius. I was so careful not to say that in front of him
      this year, but now…And damn Neville, too, for predicting that we'd
      win again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"EVERYONE knew you were going to win," Theodore pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not helping," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not trying to," Theodore replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Seriously, does EVERYONE get to talk to Potter but me?" Blaise
      complained.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"So how did you beat the curse?" Harry asked Remus
      curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Curse?" Remus repeated absently as he packed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, the one Voldemort put on the Defense Against the Dark
      Arts position so Dumbledore would have to get a new one every year?
      Seriously immature of him, by the way," Harry reflected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I didn't. My contract was only for a year," Remus told
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh." Harry paused. "What are you going to do now, then? I mean,
      didn't you say your lycanthropy made it kind of hard to find
      work?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus smiled at that. "Normally, yes, but Sirius-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Totally hired him to be Lord Black," Sirius interrupted,
      barging into Remus' office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He <em class="calibre8">hired</em> you to <strong class="calibre9">be</strong> Lord Black?" Harry
      looked to Remus for confirmation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus nodded. "He likes the title but he doesn't want to deal
      with all the responsibilities and I needed a job."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Besides," Sirius added. "Moony's, like, the most responsible
      person I know. He knows all the laws, he's a half-blood so it ought
      to annoy anyone I'm related to who isn't Remus's future girlfriend
      or her mother and-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For the last time, Sirius," Remus cut in. "Nymphadora is NOT my
      girlfriend."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She let's you call her Nymphadora," Harry pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, not even I get to do that," Sirius agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She let's Cedric Diggory and Charlie Weasley call her that,
      too," Remus said defensively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Yeah, but those two are because she lost a bet.
      And she doesn't bet first-name privileges anymore. I should know:
      I've tried."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nymphadora is a bit young for me," Remus insisted. "Seeing as
      how she just graduated two years ago."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I absolutely agree," Sirius said heartily, patting Remus on the
      back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus looked up, surprised. "You…do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Definitely," Sirius confirmed. "For another two or three years.
      But then I expect you and her to start going out. I'm sure you'll
      be very happy together. But Harry and I expect joint
      godfather-status."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aren't…you going to warn me about breaking her heart?" Remus
      asked, a bit dazed. "And what's this about children-?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why, are you planning on breaking her heart?" Sirius
      challenged, pointedly ignoring the second question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, no, but-" Remus began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then she can handle herself. She is well on her way to becoming
      an Auror, after all," Sirius said proudly. "And I'm sure she could
      castrate you far better than I ever could."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus gulped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Review Please!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
