<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>6. Minerva McGonagal and the Sensible Course of Action - Minerva McGonagal and the Sensible Course of Action, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="6. Minerva McGonagal and the Sensible Course of Action"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Variation of Chapter 14 of Eliezar Yudkowsky's Harry Potter and
      the Methods of Rationality. Because, really, McGonagall is smarter
      than that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So it is," Professor McGonagall said, "but I do have a very
      special something else to give you. I see that I have greatly
      wronged you in my thoughts, Mr. Potter. Please wait here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She got up, went over to the locked back door, waved her wand,
      and a sort of blurry curtain sprang up around her. Harry could
      neither see nor hear what was going on. It was a few minutes later
      that the blur vanished and Professor McGonagall was standing there,
      facing him, with the door behind her looking as though it hadn't
      ever been opened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Professor McGonagall held out in one hand a necklace, a thin
      golden chain bearing in its center a silver circle, within which
      was the device of an hourglass. In her other hand was a folded
      pamphlet. "This is for you," she said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wow! He was going to get some sort of neat magical item as a
      quest reward! Apparently that business with refusing offers of
      monetary rewards until you got a magic item actually worked in real
      life, not just computer games.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry felt a small but genuine surge of disappointment when he
      reached out his hand and the Deputy Headmistress placed the
      pamphlet in it, while keeping the necklace deliberately out of
      reach.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er…" he started. "What is it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor McGonagall took a breath. "Mr. Potter, this is an item
      which is ordinarily used to help students who have shown themselves
      to be highly responsible with difficult class schedules. And that
      very infrequently." McGonagall hesitated, as though about to add
      something else. "I must emphasize, Mr. Potter, that the school's
      possession and use of this item is secret and that you must not
      tell any of the other students about it. If that's not acceptable
      to you, then you can give it back now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can keep secrets," Harry said. "So what does it do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is a Spimster Wicket. Officially, it is used to treat a
      rare, non-contagious magical ailment called Spontaneous
      Duplication, which you have contracted. You have no reason to
      discuss Spontaneous Duplication with anyone, but you also have no
      reason to treat it as an awful secret. Spontaneous Duplication is
      not interesting. Do you understand, Mr. Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, his smile widening. He sensed the work of a
      competent Slytherin. "And what does it do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's commonly called a Time-Turner. Each spin of the hourglass
      sends you back one hour in time. So, if you use a Spimster Wicket
      to go back two hours every day, you should always be able to get to
      sleep at the same time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's suspension of disbelief blew completely out the
      window.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're giving me a time machine to treat my sleep disorder?" he
      asked slowly, but with a mounting edge of hysteria. "You're giving
      me a TIME MACHINE to treat my SLEEP DISORDER? YOU'RE GIVING ME A
      TIME MACHINE IN ORDER TO TREAT MY SLEEP DISORDER?!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was staring intently at the necklace in the Headmistress's
      hand, as if she was casually dangling a live bomb over her desk.
      Well, no, not as if it were a live bomb, that didn't begin to
      describe the severity of the situation. Harry stared at the
      necklace as though it were a time machine.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, Mr. Potter, of course not. Don't be absurd. Time-turners
      are rare, extremely expensive, and breakable. And paperwork
      required by the ministry if one is damaged or misused is
      substantial. I am not giving you a time machine at all. I am giving
      Madame Pomfrey a time machine to treat your sleep disorder."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Harry said. This was, he suddenly realized, incredibly
      disappointing. The more he thought about it, the more intensely
      disappointing it became, in fact. Finding out there were time
      machines and not having one was like finding out that there were
      interplanetary spaceships and the last one took off an hour ago. It
      was disappointing on a scale whose only possible response was
      immediate and concerted effort to acquire a time machine. The
      existence of time machines raised so many questions, created so
      many possibilities. Why, if you could transfer information
      iteratively, you could prove that P = NP. You could solve any
      arbitrary problem which had solutions that were easy to test but
      large in number.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Assuming we didn't destroy the world, of course.</em>
      inserted Harry's Ravenclaw side. <em class="calibre7">Time reversed ordinary matter
      looked just like antimatter. One kilogram of antimatter
      encountering one kilogram of matter would annihilate in an
      explosion equivalent to 43 million tons of TNT. Harry himself
      weighed 41 kilograms…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Really, now.</em> the voice Harry identified as his inner
      Hufflepuff said. <em class="calibre7">If they were THAT dangerous, children wouldn't
      be allowed to use them.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">At least</em>, Slytherin suggested, <em class="calibre7">it would have only
      been allowed once, after which time it would no longer be an issue,
      since there would only be a smoking crater where Scotland used to
      be!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">That's true,</em> Ravenclaw said. <em class="calibre7">Given that we grew up
      on the British Isles, and Time-Turners have been in use at Hogwarts
      during that span, it's very improbable that any single use of a
      time-turner would cause the destruction of large portions of the
      British Isles. If catastrophic matter/anti-matter reactions were
      possible at, say, 1% of Time-Turner activations, and there are
      three students at Hogwarts using a time-turner once per day on
      average, the number of possible Harry Potters who survive to age 11
      in a world that contains a reasonably intact Scotland would be
      dwarfed by the number whose worlds do not contain Scotland. This
      isn't proof, of course, but it's fairly strong evidence that
      routine time-turner use is unlikely to cause catastrophic geography
      annihilation.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">This would likely have continued for a while, but fortunately
      Professor McGonagall chose to speak up again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You'll need to report to the infirmary each day immediately
      after lunch, before your first class of the afternoon. Madame
      Pomfrey will provide you with a Spimster Wicket, which you will use
      to move backward in time two hours. You will then spend those two
      hours quietly entertaining yourself in the infirmary, not bothering
      anyone. I suggest you bring a book, or some schoolwork."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Couldn't I just hold on to it myself?" Harry suggested. Given
      the existence of time machines, and the reasonable probability that
      they could be used safely, the prospect of actually having one in
      possession was irresistibly tempting. Not that Harry was trying
      hard to resist. He would need to investigate buying one straight
      out with his Gringott's funds, if possible, but simply borrowing
      this one would certainly be more convenient. Actually, purchasing
      one, if possible, should be prioritized. Or purchasing several. It
      was worth any monetary price, because with future information you
      ought to be able to generate arbitrary amounts of wealth quickly
      via simple stock speculation. Or, for that matter, gambling. Horse
      races completed in less than an hour, and time-turners could
      obviously move you backward multiple hours, so picking winners
      would be trivial.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, Mr. Potter. Besides the expense, time-turners are a very
      limited resource for Hogwarts, and other individuals may need to
      use that one. Also, there are known side-effects to overuse of
      time-turners, and Madame Pomfrey will be observing you to ensure
      that no harm comes to you. It's all detailed in that pamphlet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry quickly leafed through the booklet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Malnutrition. Dehydration. Sleep deprivation. Hallucinations.
      Paranoia. Goniphobia. Forgetfullness. Physiological addiction.
      Psychological addiction. Impaired judgement. Delusions of grandeur…
      "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You see, Mr. Potter," the headmistress suggested primly, " why
      I believe we need expert observation. Imagine how difficult it will
      be to distinguish between your normal mental state and delusions of
      grandeur."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ha. Ha. Wait, canine trauma? Using a time-turner causes you to
      be mauled by dogs?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Only in very unusual circumstances, after prolonged use. If you
      have reason to believe you are being stalked by extra-temporal
      predators, please notify Madame Pomfrey immediately. Likewise if
      you start seeing blue telephone boxes in odd places, but that's
      also extremely unlikely. Now, then, we need to get you in synch for
      the start of the semester, and allow you to conduct an extensive
      exercise in the misuse of time travel which will simultaneously
      demonstrate your largely good intentions and your inability to act
      with restraint and good sense when provided with the means to
      travel in time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Harry said, both confused and outraged. "I haven't done
      anything with time travel at all, yet, much less misused it! You
      don't have any reason to think I'll be irresponsible with it!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"On the contrary, Mr. Potter," Minerva said cheerfully. "I have
      excellent evidence that you are about to use the ability to
      magically bend time in an incredibly frivolous manner. It has,
      after all, already happened from my perspective, even if it hasn't
      from yours. Now, I believe we need to send you back five hours this
      one time, correct? That should bring your sleep cycle to the right
      place, and in the future two hours will suffice to maintain it.
      Enjoy those five hours. It is an opportunity that will only come to
      you once, after all. And will earn you a stay in detention
      commensurate with the time I'm about to spend filing paperwork to
      the Ministry of Magic for your misuse of a time-turner. Something
      for you to look forward to, as it were. Five spins! Off you
      go!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">This is completely unfair.</em> Slytherin objected. <em class="calibre7">We
      haven't done anything wrong, and we're being given detention?
      Besides, now that we know we'll be caught, obviously we aren't
      going to do anything improper. We'll just sit quietly and read a
      book for five hours. That'll teach her!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Our morning has been pretty surreal,</em> Ravenclaw said.
      <em class="calibre7">In ways that are best explained by us misusing time travel. And
      McGonagall claims we've already done it. If we don't abuse these
      five hours in punishable way, we could create a paradox! We might
      BREAK TIME! Is avoiding detention worth that?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Oh, shut up</em>, Gryffindor inserted. <em class="calibre7">This is going to
      be awesome, and we have to do it right now. It's totally worth it,
      we know we're going to do it, and everything else is just pre-facto
      rationalization, which we might as well skip since we already know
      how it's going to turn out. Game ON!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter gave the Time Turner five spins. He couldn't
      accomplish anything stuck here in the future.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
