<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>3. Professors Aren't Idiots - Professors Aren't Idiots, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="3. Professors Aren't Idiots"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <span>Author's Notes</span><span>: Somewhat inspired by Methods of
      Rationality by Less Wrong. Basically, the idea is that no one no
      one is really that much of an idiot as we see in Harry Potter,
      which makes for very interesting characters. Based on that idea, I
      decided to tackle the two most useless professors in Hogwarts, and
      try to explain what they're actually doing. The quotes Binns
      mentions are by George Santayana and Yigal Yadin accordingly. I may
      write more oneshots like these if I get inspiration for other
      professors or other version of the same professors. Please
      review.</span>
      <p class="calibre6"><span>History has a Plan!</span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Binns was disappointed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was not a new state of affairs for him. Unfortunately, that
      only compounded the problem, for it meant he was bored as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At least boredom was a general problem of everyone in the class,
      so that was some consolation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Binns knew he was boring. He had spent his entire life
      (and afterlife) perfecting his boring techniques. He was reasonably
      sure he could put a class under in about five minutes. It was
      really an unappreciated skill - people didn't realize how much
      effort it took to find the learning material, present in the most
      boring way possible (which was hard with the material so
      interesting), and have the perfect droning tone and cadence (even
      harder without a voice-box).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You may ask, then, why did Professor Binns continue teaching
      when he knew he was not teaching anything more than how to go to
      sleep?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Because it was all part of The Plan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Yes, The Plan. An enormous conspiracy, stretching back to when
      Bernard Binns was young and idealistic, and not yet a professor. At
      the time, he had been a fierce advocate of goblin rights. However,
      he and his goblin allies soon realized that using the normal
      channels would never gain them the independence they craved. They
      considered rebellion and war, but wizards, even if they divided,
      were too strong, and the previous goblin rebellions had merely
      managed to bring things to a stalemate.<br class="calibre4"/>
      So they made up The Plan. Only goblins (with a few wizards mixed
      in), could have thought up such an elegant, long-term plan. It was
      quite simple, actually: lull the wizards into a false sense of
      security, and wait. Eventually, they would have some crisis - Civil
      War, Plague, Famine, etc. Immediately after it ended, the goblins
      would strike.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To do so, the Goblins became settled. They became respectable
      bankers, money lenders rather than warriors. it was a front, of
      course, but it also had a purpose - 'He who has his thumb on the
      purse has the power'. Nonetheless, they kept up the secret training
      of warriors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">However, all this was worthless if the wizards still remembered
      what the Goblins were capable of. So Bernard Binns became Professor
      Binns, and went on to teach History of Magic in Hogwarts, doing so
      in such a manner that either nobody would know it, or they would
      only know it by rote, but not understand it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After all, 'Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to
      repeat it'. And 'A people who do not know their past, their present
      is poor and their future is lost in a haze'.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of course, they had to give the wizards a chance. There was a
      reason why Professor Binns' lessons nearly always centered on the
      Goblin Rebellions. A clever student could notice some discrepancies
      and hints, and realize the troubles that were brewing under their
      noses.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Usually, however, these clever students were also clever enough
      to realize the Wizarding World would never believe them, and found
      themselves joining the goblins.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span>This is a Social Experiment</span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sybill Trelawney puttered about in her tower, making a cup of
      tea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was feeling quite joyful today. And it wasn't even the
      sherry. It was the success of another one of her games.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Most people did not know or were not aware, but Sybill Trelawney
      had been a Ravenclaw, though the Sorting Hat had offered her
      Slytherin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It seemed absurd. How could such an obvious fraud be a
      Ravenclaw? Yet she was the Professor of a subject which was
      impossible to learn, even more impossible to teach.<br class="calibre4"/>
      It all started when Sybill was sixteen, and had given her first
      true prophecy. Until then, she had given vague and self-fulfilling
      prophecies, playing off the fact her grandmother had been a
      celebrated Seer and doing it for fun. But when she gave her first
      true prophecy (regarding a break-up of the steadiest couple in
      Hogwarts), she suddenly realized the power she wielded. Within a
      fortnight, the couple had broken up. She couldn't understand. She
      had never believed in destiny or fate. And yet people were such
      sheep that because a teenager had entered a trance and uttered some
      words, they left the person who was dearest to them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It became her new interest. She read Oedipus Rex and other books
      of prophetic stories. It became obvious that people would do
      anything if they knew it was because a prophecy said so. Sybill had
      always been a people person - in the sense that she enjoyed finding
      out what made them do things. She realized that when if she
      continued to make prophecies, she would have an endless stream of
      social experiments, which was exactly what she wanted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She soon realized that in order to keep it a real experiment and
      protect herself it was best to spout vague or self-fulfilling
      prophecies most of the time, and pretend not to remember her true
      prophecies. Having quickly gained somewhat of a reputation, she
      used it in order to gain the position of Divination Professor. It
      gave her so many more opportunities to test her social theories. So
      she spouted nonsense, made vague prophecies (some of which she
      fulfilled herself - sending that Gryffindor girl's rabbit a
      poisoned carrot was too easy), and watched her students to see
      which ones had figured it out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That was why she liked Harry and Ron so much. They had begun to
      understand her game, and were trying to play it. Of course, they
      didn't know the rules yet (they thought she centered on death, when
      in truth, it was completely random), but they still had a few years
      in which they could learn... and there would be others after
      them.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
