<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 10: Defence and Offence, Part 1, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s10" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 10: Defence and Offence, Pt 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">For problems: Attack the urgent, consider the important,
      ignore the rest.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">- Lucius Malfoy, as told to Draco Malfoy (Age 9)</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Just before sunrise Draco listened to Hogwarts coming alive.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">(Hogwarts is not alive.)</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Thousands of wizards and witches scattered around the world -
      but mostly in the UK - love Hogwarts dearly. They succumbed easily,
      often before their sorting. Riding in gondolas under the moonlight,
      stomachs knotted in excitement and dread, they'd glimpse the
      stonework for the first time and feel reassured by Hogwart's quiet
      majesty. Older students cheered their entrance, applauded their
      sorting, slapped their backs as they joined their future home.
      First Years loved everyone by the end of that feast. Soon enough
      they'd be disappointed, scolded, overworked, and betrayed. They'd
      run to class, dodging Peeves, fall asleep during lectures and get
      sent to detention. Reality intrudes and feelings complicate. If
      students had to assign an average feeling, they'd label it 'Good'
      but could rarely point to one person that made them feel
      consistently good. They felt a subconscious desire to assign the
      credit <em class="calibre7">somewhere</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Hogwarts <em class="calibre7">is</em> somewhere.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not all students instantly loved Hogwarts. Some required another
      year. Most succumbed eventually, and even if they considered their
      years a terrible experience, they blamed people. Severus Snape -
      wherever he was - loved Hogwarts. If they knew of it, Muggles would
      adore it and become enchanted (in all senses) by its ancient
      splendor and bewildering secrets. Hogwarts exasperated and
      intrigued and intoxicated those lucky Muggles on campus. They
      explored a strange old world ripped from children's fables only
      more fantastic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Besotted sixth years often adopted the jaded pose typical of
      teenagers and denied their love. (Fifth years studied and crammed
      and what little time for love they possessed we will not discuss).
      But as inevitable as winter turning to summer some new wonder
      grasped their imagination and shook away false ennui. The wrong
      hallway could lead to a month long quest. Strolling outside could
      turn a warm spring day into a wondrous adventure with beasts
      unknown, or a legend believed mythical. Romance blooms rapidly in
      exciting times and Hogwarts adds zest to life, after a brief visit
      to Madam Pomfrey.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Foreigners express shock at the attendance of Hogwarts reunions,
      held during Summer Solstice. Those who attend, typically as
      'plus-ones,' bask in the sheer joy expressed by the returning
      alumni. They listen to the stories, see the camaraderie. Guests
      search in vain for <em class="calibre7">In Memoriam</em> placards around the halls,
      or graveyards and mausoleums on the grounds. They wonder how
      Hogwarts banished almost all the ghosts. Durmstrang is more
      respected than beloved.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For his part, Harry Potter forgot all about Oxford once he
      stepped foot on Hogwarts. Oxford now reminded Harry of Geordi
      LaForge: talented, interesting, and a good man to have around. But
      you only listened to LaForge's stories out of politeness. He won't
      draw a crowd or get the green-skinned girl like Hogwarts did.
      (Harry had a complicated relationship with Spock). Potter respected
      the Next Generation, but classics endure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry loved Hogwarts <em class="calibre7">knowing</em> he loved a system, not a
      creature. He knew Hogwarts didn't care, wasn't alive. He never
      projected emotions on it, except as linguistic shorthand. Not like
      his classmates. One march morning Harry lectured his fellow
      Ravenclaws about that mistake. Afterwards, Cho Chang pointed to
      Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres' receding form and solemnly intoned
      "That, fellow students, is a Dork. It may, at times, appear to have
      tact. But rest assured you are just projecting it onto him. A
      common fallacy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Potter hadn't even pontificated much. Anthropomorphizing
      Hogwarts barely registered as a fallacy: it wasn't harmful like
      attributing meaning to a simple text program like ELIZA or
      believing in Muggle psychics. His halfhearted lecture stopped well
      short of his typical pedantry. Hogwarts stood – except for a few
      floating parts – uncaring. Harry knew that, but he suspected that
      Hogwarts (that name being shorthand for the amazingly complex
      magical system designed by the Founders) <em class="calibre7">did</em> help those
      who roamed its halls.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Why else had Salazar laid down secret paths? Surely not to trap
      his students. Rowena had strewn puzzles to be found and solved, not
      to be ignored. Godric scattered magical traps to be avoided and
      duels to be defeated. And it just seemed like Helga Hufflepuff's
      style. The Founders hid treasures behind <em class="calibre7">apparently</em>
      fearsome obstacles that rarely did permanent damage (as wizards
      counted these things). They'd bequeathed Hogwarts, their glorious
      clockwork sanctum, a bewildering array of enchantments. And those
      enchantments changed. Just last summer a staircase that rose from
      West to East every Tuesday for as long as anyone could remember
      (except during New Moons, when it lilted slightly to the North-East
      and turned into a water slide) suddenly rotated into southerly
      facing trampoline and added a wading pool.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hogwarts mutated according to some set of complex and
      contradictory rules that changed over the years, as the Founders
      intended. Hermione, in an mild debate with Harry in early August,
      pointed out that a system that had goals, acted on them, and
      evolved might not be <em class="calibre7">biologically</em> active, but the word
      'Alive' seemed to apply. She'd eventually left angry, pointing out
      that Harry Potter had finally reconciled creationism with
      evolution.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry conceded the point (but only silently, to himself) and
      spent his spare time coaxing secrets from these halls to unwind
      after the frustrations of the day and renew his sense of
      wonder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knows love makes people irrational.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry believed in Hogwarts (the system) because true learning
      happens outside classrooms. Experience and enthusiasm trump rote
      lectures and the Founders knew that. So Harry Potter believed that
      indifferent, dead Hogwarts existed as a complex educational system.
      He was hardly the first to come to that conclusion. Most
      Headmasters grasped this eventually. Albus PWB Dumbledore
      understood well before assuming that mantle. Tom Riddle knew the
      truth and Quirinus Quirrell based his pedagogy on that insight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While Draco spent those pre-dawn hours reconsidering and
      agonizing, Minerva McGonagall started learning this lesson.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Last January a lovestruck student discovered a single passenger
      dirigible. It showed up on a fairly predictable schedule, provided
      you knew a smattering of Mermish. On those nights it appeared it
      drifted towards music. One admittedly precarious jump from an 8th
      floor window near his bed would see our fifth year Ravenclaw safely
      in the basket undercarriage and then whisked to a secluded parapet
      in the Gryffindor girl's dormitory. Over the summer he'd gathered
      his courage and made arrangements, pleased at his cleverness. This
      route avoided nosy prefects and hallways patrolled by Argus Filch
      (who had been hired back on over the summer, much to the chagrin of
      all the students).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd studied the patterns, perfected his whistling, and plotted
      the astronomical charts. He'd double checked the dates: balloon
      would drift by at 1am the first night of school. He'd
      <em class="calibre7">hadn't</em> realized the tiny red zeppelin only followed its
      assigned course if the basket was empty.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At 2am Hagrid, out searching for a wounded Hippogriff he'd seen
      from time to time, noticed an Acromantula web stretched between
      treetops. He'd politely asked why it was there. Aragog ominously
      answered "Breakfast," but by then Hagrid heard the boy's cries and
      untangled him while fending off famished spiders with a pink
      umbrella.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And so, at 3am, Headmistress McGonagall lectured the unfortunate
      boy and assigned one weeks detention helping Hagrid, who'd agreed
      to repair the web in an effort to smooth over the incident.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Seeing no chance of getting any more sleep, she'd made a cup of
      tea while despairing about the students in her charge. The trick
      was to lean on the undercarriage railing, which had seemed obvious
      to her back in her sixth year. That propelled the balloon in the
      opposite direction for some reason. Her thoughts drifted while she
      sipped her tea, wondering what she'd ever seen in the rotund,
      balding, and utterly boring Undersecretary of Charms and
      Curses.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco hadn't heard that adventure, just some trees rustling that
      he thought was just the wind. But by five am the gentle grinding of
      staircases announced the start of the day, and Draco Malfoy decided
      he might as well get up. After getting dressed Draco slipped out
      the door, diary in hand, to do some research in the remaining hours
      before breakfast.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The first years fell silent as Draco strode into the lecture
      hall with Hermione and Harry Potter. They'd agreed to enter as a
      group after everyone was seated. Waiting looked unimpressive -
      unless you suddenly snapped out of a catatonic state - and they
      needed to signal authority. Professor Lockhart, newly appointed
      Head of House Gryffindor, stood behind the professor's desk next to
      an empty leather seat. Draco and his fellow generals walked in
      front of the desk. Once again Draco reflected that <em class="calibre7">he</em>
      hadn't looked nervous on his first day of class, one long year
      ago.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They'd come straight from breakfast to teach the first class of
      the year. ("Learning how to think precedes learning what to do,"
      Harry Potter had explained to the Headmistress, who had sighed and
      re-arranged the schedules several weeks ago).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We are Generals Granger, Potter and Malfoy." Draco said,
      indicating each in turn and bowing slightly at his own name. The
      class murmured, not all of them knew some classes would be taught
      by students. Many pointed at Hermione and whispered. Colin Creevey
      was pointing to Hermione and gesturing, but the nearby students
      ignored him. A few less pointed to Harry Potter and barely anyone
      talked about Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No talking!" said Lockhart to immediate effect. Draco
      continued, while Potter surreptitiously reviewed his notes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Welcome to the Hogwarts, and welcome to class. For centuries,
      until last year, this class was known as 'Defence Against the Dark
      Arts.' An appropriate name, although for years our instructors only
      <em class="calibre7">pretended</em> to teach that subject. Last year's Defence
      Professor, Quirinus Quirrell, actually taught us. We learned, as
      you will learn, how to defend ourselves. Professor Quirrell sat in
      that chair behind me slowly dying with an illness. Outside of
      classes he could barely move. But he taught vigorously and he
      taught us well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Lockhart nodded approvingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione continued "Professor Quirrell, also known as David
      Monroe, named the class and the lessons he covered 'Battle Magic.'
      He broke tradition in many ways, adding the armies we Generals led
      as a new feature. He taught us how to fight. He taught us how to
      win. I can't describe how much I learned and how much fun I had.
      Today, you get the chance. I suggest you sign up for the first year
      armies."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione cocked her head and continued, "Because without
      Professor Quirrell's training, I stood no chance against the troll
      that killed me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart made no attempt to silence the class this time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter spoke over them. "Professor Quirrell taught us that
      trolls are the third most perfect killing machine in nature.
      General Granger would have defeated the troll but what she didn't
      know - what nobody knew - is that she was actually fighting the
      most perfect killing machine of a generation. <em class="calibre7">Voldemort</em>
      sent the troll."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some students gasped at the name. Harry had started shakily, but
      he'd gotten the rhythm and had the full attention of the class.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Voldemort</em> sabotaged her weapons. Hermione Granger
      would have escaped, except for Voldemort's interference. She had
      learned enough to survive a mere troll."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco continued without pause.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"General Potter killed the troll. Later Professor Quirrell,
      despite being near death, fought Voldemort to a standstill. General
      Ganger's aid was enough to tip the balance and defeat him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was Hermione's turn.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Make no mistake. You won't know enough to defeat an adult Dark
      Wizard this year. I didn't. Even weakened, Voldemort killed dozens
      of wizards. Dark wizards are <em class="calibre7">dangerous</em>, and it takes
      decades to achieve enough power to match them. Few do. I took
      advantage of lucky circumstances in that Battle. Voldemort's ritual
      weakened him, Professor Monroe's attack wounded him further, and I
      caught him by surprise."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter continued. "You could say she got lucky. But plenty
      of people have opportunities. It's not sufficient to <em class="calibre7">be</em>
      lucky. You need to <em class="calibre7">seize</em> your luck, <em class="calibre7">recognize</em> it
      and act. The best way to win a battle, to win decisively, is
      overwhelming force. Unless you are a powerful Wizard or Witch, you
      won't have it. If you are weaker, the easiest way to win is to take
      the initiative and do the unexpected."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He nodded to Draco, who hid his annoyance. Draco Malfoy did not
      forget lines or miss his cue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor Quirrell was the greatest Slytherin of our
      generation. We honour his sacrifice. His empty chair sits watching
      over future classes. He didn't respect tradition but I think he'd
      approve this one. He'd approve students teaching each other in the
      lecture halls, just as we taught ourselves on the battlefield."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Welcome," said Hermione Granger, "to your first lecture in
      'Offense Against the Dark Arts.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Take out your wands. Our first spell is <em class="calibre7">Mahasu,</em>" said
      Harry Potter as the globes descended from the ceiling.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The first years chatted excitedly as they poured out of the
      lecture Hall. Professor Lockhart returned from the back room and
      greeted the trio. "Well done, excellent poise and an important
      lesson. I know I hadn't learned those skills until I had been out
      of school at least a decade. I worry my lecture will seem dull," he
      said, flashing them all a smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">2nd year Defence classes had posed a problem. Last year
      Professor Quirrell had effectively taught first year classes to
      each grade. The older students hadn't needed targeting spells to
      gain confidence; older students cast more powerful spells than even
      Draco knew, but they'd spent years thinking of Defence Class in a
      totally different way. So Professor Quirrell covered many of the
      same lessons for each year. He hadn't done the <em class="calibre7">exact</em> same
      lectures, in the exact same order. Part of his special talent
      involved grasping the mood of a room, understanding where he stood,
      and what his young apprentices did (or, more typically, did not)
      understand, and explaining.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco envied that talent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In reviewing Professor Quirrell's notes the Generals discovered
      that even N.E.W.T. classes had started from roughly the same
      position as they had. Older students had progressed faster since
      the Professor wasted less time teaching spells. But he'd lost time
      helping them unlearn bad habits picked up from prior teachers. In
      some ways, Dragon, Chaos and Sunshine armies had demonstrated
      Quirrell's pedagogy best. Which left the question – <em class="calibre7">How to
      follow up</em>? All Generals across the years had roughly the same
      grasp of strategy. If Percy Weasley's army fought Diggory's the
      elder students would have an advantage, but that was just the
      natural consequence of magic increasing with age. Why should 3rd
      years respect a 4th year lecturer, when they knew the same thing?
      In under a decade the problem would solve itself but right now
      there was effectively one first year class and six second year
      classes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An authority figure seemed necessary, at least to get things
      started.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco sat in the same seat he'd used last year. Gregory sat down
      next to him as other students arrived. People gravitated to the
      seats they'd used last year but the resorting made for some awkward
      situations. Harry sat in Vincent's old seat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought you skipped ahead," Gregory asked, leaning across
      Draco to whisper conspiratorially.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm curious. I want to hear this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Vincent sat next to Neville. The Hufflepuff group had no
      infighting over seats, unlike other houses.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco felt grateful the classes occurred in order. Being able to
      just wait a few minutes between lectures saved him an extra trek to
      and from Offense, which would have eaten into his already full
      schedule even more. Draco, Harry and Hermione had agreed to split
      teaching duties after the introductory lecture. Harry would teach
      Wednesday's class and figure out who the most dangerous students
      were. Hermione's lessons focused on mechanics, helping students
      learn spells.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco, the only Wizard-born General of the year, would lead
      after-action discussions and draw comparisons to prior battles
      (mock battles in school and historical battles) and cover the
      history of Battle Magic. He was also in charge of quashing
      inter-army fights, making sure battles didn't stray off the field.
      (Quirrell <em class="calibre7">hadn't</em> cared about that. Unsanctioned battles
      occurred roughly weekly from Fall until the Abolition of the Houses
      and current fourth years aligned more by armies than houses. A true
      mess).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Lockhart put his wand to his throat, said
      <em class="calibre7">Sonorus,</em> and his voice echoed throughout the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Nobody knew exactly how Professor Quirrell's small pedagogical
      charms worked. The giant viewing screen for watching battles was
      well known, but his small personal screens and audio/visual system
      appeared to be unique. Quirrell's notes only listed spells
      <em class="calibre7">taught</em>, not spells <em class="calibre7">used</em>. Professor Flitwick had
      struggled over cryptic handwritten references for the entire
      summer. Harry Potter dropped his investigation after a week, once
      he considered his own sense of humor, and urged Flitwick to let the
      matter rest).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good morning. I am Professor Gilderoy Lockhart, your occasional
      lecturer during Offense against the Dark Arts. And I want you to
      know – I am a fraud." Harry sat up straight. Draco, already
      somewhat tired from his sleepless night, woke up fully. The class
      hadn't seemed bored, more wary, but now they were all listening
      intently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why, just last night our Sorting Hat warned you not to trust
      someone just because they seem confident. Oh, I've achieved some
      items of note and minor glory. I've fought terrifying creatures.
      I've fought a <em class="calibre7">Krogan</em> and they are dangerous, believe me.
      You don't want to get ambushed by a <em class="calibre7">Krogan</em>. But then, you
      don't want to get ambushed by anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The class laughed. Professor Lockhart shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I've never fought a Dark Wizard. Just pests. Your Professor
      rightly mocked minor pests. I suppose for a Wizard of his calibre
      they are all minor. Personally, I steer clear of Hungarian
      Horntails. For lesser wizards such as myself and dare I say you,
      major pests exist. I pride myself a pest control expert so I doubt
      Professor Quirrell would have much use for me. He'd consider me a
      fraud."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yes, I know of his lectures. '<em class="calibre7">The only thing you have to
      fear is a Dark Wizard.</em>' I suppose that's true, but I spoke to
      Miss Granger. That troll terrified her. Maybe you shouldn't be
      afraid, but that won't help you when the fear comes. And it does
      come, even for brave Gryffindors like myself. Or Miss Granger now,
      I suppose."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Gryffindors cheered, but Professor Lockhart cut them off
      with a wave of his hand. Tracey Davis mock whispered "Where is she,
      anyway?" to Harry Potter, who shrugged. Lockhart turned to her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One point from Slytherin. Where was I? Ah ... <em class="calibre7">'One killing
      curse will bring it down.'</em> A good rule, if you know the
      Killing Curse or any other suitable curses I'll teach. Perhaps I
      should have used a Killing Curse when I encountered a Geeger. It
      stands seven feet tall, strong enough to lift you off your feet and
      rip you in half. I've seen one stab its razor sharp tail clean
      through a man's chest, but I was lucky. <em class="calibre7">I saw it</em>. The
      Geeger is pitch black and almost impossible to spot although not
      technically invisible. In a darkened forest, you could pass feet
      from one and think it part of a tree if you noticed it at all. And
      they often perch in trees, or lurk in caves. Their teeth..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He trailed off for a second, eyes distant in memory, then
      recovered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anyway, <em class="calibre7">one killing curse will indeed bring it down</em>.
      And then it will explode, splattering those nearby with its blood.
      There are only a dozen uses for Dragon's Blood, but I can
      personally imagine hundreds of uses for Geeger blood. If only it
      didn't burn through anything in seconds. If you do use a Killing
      Curse on that nasty beast, you must be at a safe distance.
      Actually, always keep your distance."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He paused and stared around the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"While scanning for Geegers<em class="calibre7">,</em> make sure the tree itself
      isn't a Triffid. Easy enough to avoid, Triffids, but if you stumble
      onto one it may drain your blood or even bite your limbs clean off.
      You needn't even Apparate away from one. A few steps will suffice.
      It can be brought down by a single curse, even <em class="calibre7">inflammare</em>.
      No need to get fancy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or consider the Iudices. This creature looks like a tall, well
      dressed, smiling man. They don't fly so much as float. Grinning
      like a hyena Iudices stalk their prey at the speed of a brisk walk.
      You'll need a few killing curses as they travel in packs. You'll
      also need to be able to cast them wordlessly, since they steal the
      speech of their intended victims. They' cut your heart out with a
      knife and cook it, while you scream without making a sound.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Monachiko Dolofonous</em> disguise themselves as statues.
      They move so quickly they could cross this lecture hall in the
      blink of an eye. So fast you'll never see one move. They are
      vulnerable to killing curses. Any one of the suits of armor you
      pass along the hallway could have been a <em class="calibre7">Monachiko</em>. But
      which statute? How to know? An Aliquid has no true form. It assumes
      yours after digesting you. It speaks with the voice of the deceased
      and retains its victims memories. The student sitting next to you
      could be one, right now. They are vulnerable to practically any
      spell except <em class="calibre7">Diffindo</em>. They don't transfigure exactly like
      a troll, but each limb retains the ability to move and an admirably
      murderous instinct even when hacked apart. Even if its no match for
      a Dark Wizard such as himself, Professor Quirrell unjustly slighted
      this creature when he made his list. I'd rank Aliquids well above
      Dementors. You always know when a Dementor is nearby.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A few years ago an expedition of Aurors disappeared in South
      America. The only survivor raved wildly that the jungle itself
      attacked them; one Wizard a day, killing them and then skinning
      them. After the second day they Apparated away. It, or something
      like it, tracked them down to the village they'd gone to. The
      villagers found the skin. I happened to be in Argentina and they
      kindly asked for my expertise. I knew it wasn't an Aliquid since
      those consume the skin, leaving no trace, and do not track victims.
      In fact, I could quickly deduce that it was none of the monsters
      I've mentioned or that you'll find in any of your textbooks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I declined to investigate. Some pests terrify me. So, what do I
      have left to teach you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Students shifted around. Several were still inspecting their
      neighbors, trying to determine if any Aliquids lurked nearby.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am new to public speaking and teaching, but my question was
      not rhetorical. <em class="calibre7">What do I have left to teach you?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco doubted the first part. The ironic admission of fraud gave
      it away. Lockhart may be self taught, but he'd grabbed Draco's
      attention with his easy charisma and confidence. Most students
      looked towards Potter and Malfoy. Harry Potter smirked, folded his
      arms in front of himself and tightened his lips. Draco followed
      suit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your Generals expect you to fight your own battles, this time.
      Well now," he pulled a looking glass out of a cape pocket and,
      looking through it, read off the name. 'Mr. Weasley?'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I dunno. All about those creatures, I guess?" Draco stifled a
      chuckle, and then a yawn. It had been a long night.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That I will most definitely teach. It is my area of expertise,
      after all. What <em class="calibre7">general</em> point was I making, Mr. Weasley?
      What can I teach you that Quirrell didn't?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The red-haired boy blushed. Professor Lockhart sighed and swung
      the looking glass across the audience. "Miss Abbott?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, Pests are dangerous?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"An obvious point. One that Quirrell knew even though he
      minimized their danger as a teaching example. I suppose you are
      correct, so let me digress. 'One killing curse will bring it down.'
      But you didn't learn the killing curse. Your lessons from last year
      emphasized two things. Efficiency and intent to do violence.
      Reflect on my pests. A Dark Wizard may be the most dangerous
      creature in the world, but none of those horrors I've describe lack
      murderous intent. They murder Wizards and do it quite well. None
      cast charms, but all possess innate magic and at least a low
      cunning, if not actual intelligence. But that was not my lesson,
      just examples. As I've said, I've personally never fought a Dark
      Wizard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Lockhart returned the looking glass to his pocket. As
      Lockhart drew his hand out Draco noticed the wand and then Harry's
      movement startled Draco who looked over at Potter bolting and Draco
      woke fully up while Gregory shouted and Potter dove towards the
      floor behind Padma Patil and Pansy Parkinson and <em class="calibre7">only then</em>
      did Draco dive and he glanced up and saw...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart's wand centered on him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Stupefy! Stupefy!"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco Malfoy hit the ground, unconscious. A second later
      Professor Lockhart's shields flared and sparked but easily absorbed
      the scattered charms fired at him. Lockhart calmly put his wand
      away and took out his looking glass.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very good. Two Quirrell points each to, let's see ... Mr.
      Longbottom, of course. Miss Patil. Mr. Crabbe. Miss Patil? Two of
      you, and in different houses? Oh, that will cause confusion. Mr.
      Zabini. Miss Abbott. I'm rather surprised I don't have to award you
      points, Mr. Potter. You had your wand out fast and dodged easily
      enough."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter had, by this time, carefully stepped over the body
      of Draco Malfoy and returned to his seat. The entire time he kept
      his wand raised high, practically at the level of his eye, pointed
      at Professor Lockhart. He slowly lowered it to point at Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Enervate</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry helped Draco back to his chair. "You weren't attacking us,
      so much as proving a point."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Lockhart nodded. "You withheld fire on gut instinct?
      Professor Quirrell would not approve. But I do. At least, when I am
      the target. Mr. Potter gets two points for grasping the point I
      clearly failed to teach. And I owe Mr. Malfoy an opportunity. He
      would have undoubtedly fired if I had shot anyone else. Just a
      touch slow, but better than his defenders. Mr. Malfoy, what do I
      have left to teach you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco had been rubbing the small bump on his forehead that
      threatened to grow, and had amplified the ringing in his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How to recognize when we are in a fight."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Lockhart nodded and turned to the rest of the class,
      after one last glance at Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Five points for being correct and as way of apology. Last year
      you fought at a set time and place, when a bell sounded. You fought
      well but in my personal experience wizards rarely announce their
      intent to attack. Creatures never line up for battle. Pests do
      sometimes sound a bell ... to those who know what to listen for.
      You must learn to recognize when you are in danger. For magical
      beasts, learn the signs. It's easy spotting murderous intent one
      second too late. So recognize the early signs. Professor Quirrell
      knew this. But he only had so much time. It's a complicated
      subject."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Some final points. The reason I declined to investigate that
      creature in South America was that it clearly had murderous intent
      and I had no earthly idea what I was dealing with. If I had
      investigated, maybe I would have discovered what it was, but I
      feared I would find myself in Mr. Malfoy's position. Remember that.
      I will also award several points to any students who put forth a
      plausible theory by next lecture and if I think you are actually
      right...well, I don't expect that to happen but I will try to think
      of a fitting reward."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Normally students would be packing, once a Professor started
      summing up. Some had taken out scrolls and scribbled down quick
      notes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dark Wizards are rare, subtle ones practically mythical. Be
      thankful. Imagine if Voldemort could have held his temper in check
      or Grindenwald hadn't openly plunged the world into war? Pests hide
      when they feel vulnerable or to sneak up on you. If you know what
      you face, the danger diminishes. Just like Dark Wizards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Finally, in the future I will deduct one Quirrell point from
      anyone laughing about ambushes. Now, let us turn our attention to
      the variety of shield spells..."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Author's Note - An early post, since I have finished this and
      got a few other draft chapters done this weekend. I realized later
      that I could have posted this in three small chunks relatively
      easily. It would take me equally long to write this but would
      people rather see 3 small updates or a big one (assuming the final
      update took place on the same day?) Let me know.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Next update - Early next week I have some travel between now and
      then, but I believe I will be able to change back to a more
      aggressive schedule soon enough (except that I have further travel
      this summer).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I would be remiss if I didn't credit Ginny Weasley and the
      Sealed Intelligence for making me believe that G.L. could be an
      interesting character. (I have not in fact finished it, although I
      did get as far as the first defence lecture before I decided to
      greatly reduce my reading of HPMOR fan fiction).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I also now remember that Draco had a private room in the
      original work (HPMOR Ch 98). Oh well. I'm sticking with my
      version.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
