<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 12: Defence and Offence, Part 3, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s12" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 12: Defence and Offence, Pt 3</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"A fact your enemy does not know is a handful of Galleons. A
      fact your enemy knows incorrectly is a treasure beyond
      price."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">- Lucius Malfoy</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco got up gingerly from the table, dinner unfinished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aren't you hungry?" asked Gregory. When Draco shook his head,
      Gregory grabbed the roll off of Draco's plate. At least this year
      Draco wouldn't have to listen to Crabbe ranting about the caloric
      injustice that was the Goyle metabolism. Gregory ate just as much,
      more perhaps, as Vincent and never gained an ounce of fat, so
      Vincent had a point. But it had been made, stated, reiterated, made
      unfunny and then funny again, and general discussed from all
      angles. No point complaining about the unfairness of life.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They made their way back to the Dungeons, but Draco passed their
      room, went through the Commons, and continued down another flight
      of stairs. In the common room fifth years sat, writing out scrolls
      and pouring over text books, already studying for their O.W.L.S.
      The left most entrance led to the upper year boys dorm, and Draco
      started that way as Gregory pulled up beside him, coughing slightly
      in place of a question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Robert," Draco explained. Gregory fell back. Draco went up the
      stairs and poked his head into the main room, glancing around, and
      saw Robert sitting on his bed talking to his brother Ethan. Draco
      cleared his throat. Ethan saw Draco first. His face dropped
      slightly, shock then annoyance followed by masked indifference.
      Draco hadn't set foot in the room, not really, he'd just poked his
      head in. Robert frowned, but got up and came over.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is it, Malfoy?" he asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I just wanted to thank you, again. After last night, I didn't
      know what to expect. I shouldn't have done that, brought you up in
      the duel. I'm sorry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're right. You shouldn't have."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco stood in the doorway, waiting. For once he didn't bother
      trying to hide the awkwardness he felt. In some cases, appearing
      awkward helped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, what? Spit it out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wanted to ask you a favor, but I don't want to impose. Sorry,
      never mind." Draco started to leave.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What makes you think I'd do you a favor?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My mistake. I'll go." Draco turned and went up the stairs, not
      looking behind him. Thankfully you ascended as you exited the
      Dungeons (or went from the main area back to Draco's room). He
      trusted his footing more, more going up. Going downstairs on a bad
      leg felt treacherous.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What was that all about?" Gregory asked when they got back to
      their room. "This makes no sense."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was curious, <em class="calibre7">why did Robert help me</em>? There are lots
      of ways to go about making a friend. Giving a gift, sharing a
      secret. Getting someone to do you a favor works fairly well too.
      And if the favor actually winds up helping us both. I think
      Robert's an ally, or at least on the fence. But he feels, I don't
      know, honour bound to appear indifferent. I can work with that.
      Besides, sometimes ideas take time, and now I've planted the idea
      that I'm thankful and want to ask a favor. Although ... Now that I
      think about it, we should practice. I don't actually know if I can
      do this, yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Teach the <em class="calibre7">Patronus</em> charm. All right, let's see if you
      can learn it. I think the mechanics are easy enough, but you just
      have to believe," Draco said, holding his hands up defensively.
      "Yes, I know, it sounds like something out of that children's fable
      about the dog made out of paper."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter walked into his room and then did a double take.
      "An owl. Huh. I like it, elegant." He closed the door behind him.
      Gregory's Patronus sat on the window ledge, looking out over the
      dusk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did you know, Potter?" Gregory asked. "How did you know we
      could do this when we didn't. I mean, I don't think any of my dad's
      classmates did, ever heard of..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sometimes it takes an outsider's perspective. And sometimes
      it's tricky. Did you ever, I don't know, look at clouds and spot
      shapes? Yes, well, that's harmless. It's what we're good at,
      finding patterns. And sometimes we get strange beliefs in them.
      Take Basketball, its like … Muggle Quidditch. No flying, but you
      throw a ball into a hoop. There are more goals, each team may make
      40-60 goals a game. Well, many of the best players believe that
      once a player makes a few goals, he gets 'hot' and is more likely
      to make his next goal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But it turns out that they've studied it. And a player who has
      just made 3 free throws – a shot from a fixed point - is no more or
      less likely to make their next free throw. But all the players
      believe it. And, the belief got passed down. Players retire, they
      become coaches, they talk to their player's about the hot hand. But
      the statistics don't bear it out. Anyway, at some point, maybe one
      year of Slytherins couldn't learn it, or had a teacher who didn't
      think Slytherins could, so didn't bother teaching it, and then
      everyone started believing it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what made you think we could?" asked Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It just seemed … highly unlikely that there were be a
      significant distinction between the houses on this ability. Clearly
      there are some forms of magic that depend on the caster's mental
      state, but happiness? Slytherins can be happy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Apparently so." Gregory walked over to his <em class="calibre7">Patronus</em>,
      whispered to it, and it flew off into the night.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's the kind of stuff Harry is teaching. I mean, apart from
      practical things, but how to think."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry watched Draco pick up his cane, that had once belonged to
      Lucius Malfoy. Draco was idly flipping it, first catching it by the
      snake handle, then by the toe. It seemed irreverent, to be almost
      playing catch with the walking stick. Harry remembered his meeting
      on Platform Nine and Three-Quarters with Lucius, how the sudden
      crack of the stick against platform removed the two of them into
      the pale haze, isolated from the rest of the world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">What else could that cane do?</em> Harry thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So why so secretive about it?" asked Gregory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, losing a cherished belief takes a toll. It's hard,
      admitting you were wrong," said Harry. Draco flipped the cane, then
      swung it in front of him like a baseball bat, or sword. He flipped
      it again, swung it again, snake handle gleaming as it arced through
      the air in front of him. "I suppose Draco filled you in about the
      experiments on magical potency and blood? He didn't take that
      well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Flip, swing.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You aren't seriously going to use that in a fight, are
      you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco paused, mid swing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wasn't planning on using it <em class="calibre7">comically</em>. Or
      ironically. And so you <em class="calibre7">do</em> hear gossip, Harry, wherever it
      is you disappear to all day. Good to know. No, I'm not planning on
      using my Sigil in some random fight. But if things get out of hand,
      well. Who always says 'be prepared?' Actually, you sing it. Which
      is annoying, you know." Draco set the cane back down on top of his
      desk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's one of those singers?" said Gregory, sarcastically. "And
      you didn't think to mention that yesterday?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What else does that do, anyway?" asked Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know. It's one of those mysteries I have to unlock.
      According to legend it can do just about anything but I think we
      Malfoys invented those stories up ourselves just to keep everyone
      guessing. I haven't seen it do much more than make you disappear
      with Father. But it's been in the family forever."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can I?" asked Harry, holding out his hand. Gregory stiffened
      for a moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco glanced up. "I don't see why not." He picked up the cane
      and handed it across to Harry, who took it an inspected it. "But
      I'd advise against picking it up when I'm not around. Just in case
      some of those stories happen to be true."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry hadn't known what to expect. The cane clearly possessed
      power. He'd seen it last January. Harry's first thought - a thought
      he'd never been able to do anything about since he could hardly
      experiment on Lucius Malfoy's cane - was that the cane worked like
      a wand. After all, where was it written that you had to use a
      <em class="calibre7">small</em> piece of wood to use magic? Why not a four-foot long
      branch? But the Malfoy Sigil, as Draco had called it, didn't feel
      like a wand. It lacked the responsiveness of a wand, that small
      tingling sensation that Harry associated with defying physics, like
      licking a battery. But while Harry didn't feel the magic, he felt
      an emotion when he touched the cane, just as he felt when he first
      grasped the Elder Wand. But while the Elder Wand's presence cried
      out like a cascade of trumpets calling to glory, like the purity of
      righteous aggression, this cane's presence reminded Harry of an
      elegy. A quiet minor key, slightly out of tune. <em class="calibre7">Was the cane
      mourning?</em> The thought came to Harry unbidden.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He handed it back to Draco. "Thanks. Just curious."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can take the Ravenclaw out of the library..." said Gregory
      with a laugh, then turned to the window as his <em class="calibre7">Patronus</em>
      landed on the ledge.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The next day, as Harry sat poring over a few books he'd pulled
      from the Library shelves, he felt Hermione's hair brush past his
      shoulder as she bent down over him. He sat back with a jump,
      narrowly missing Hermione's chin with his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You should cough, or something," Harry said. "You <em class="calibre7">know</em>
      you don't make much noise when you move. It's unnerving."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione had actually forgotten about that, hadn't yet fully
      internalized all of her differences of her transformation. She knew
      she moved gracefully and quietly on an intellectual level, but she
      didn't <em class="calibre7">feel</em> any different than before. Still, she didn't
      apologize. Hermione and Harry had taken to playing a game where
      they never actually conceded they were wrong unless it was about
      something important. She'd been hoping to catch him reading
      <em class="calibre7">Hogwarts: A History,</em> since she was sure he'd actually read
      it. Well, not sure, but more probable than not. Harry knew too
      much. So she quietly stalked him whenever he disappeared with a
      book or to the library.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Harry, of course, only read that particular book when hidden
      inside his trunk).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mm-hmm. What are you doing," Hermione asked innocently,
      "Studying History?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Research. Did you ever read any stories about that cane of
      Draco's?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On the other side of the Library, Draco sat writing notes in his
      journal.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Urgent - The fight for Slytherin. Yesterday has shown this
      issue is more pressing than I'd feared.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Important, but not immediately urgent- Investigating Harry's
      relationship with Voldemort.</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Author's Note</strong> – Harry read about The Hot-Hand
      effect based on research published prior to 1991. For example, see
      Gilovich, et al. "<em class="calibre7">How we know what isn't so: The Fallibility of
      Human Reason in Everyday Life</em>" for details. Recent studies -
      using the more detailed shot tracking metrics in the NBA, which
      record exactly where shots are made from and how far away defenders
      are - have reopened the issue. Players with a Hot Hand don't
      necessarily have a better percentage on their next shots but
      <em class="calibre7">they take more difficult shots</em> (as they gain confidence,
      or attract more defenders). And their percentage doesn't go down
      noticeably when taking these more difficult shots. (Other studies
      just looking at free throws also throw the original research into
      question).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So, it could be argued that they are, in fact, outperforming
      expectation. The data from earlier studies showed no effect, the
      current data implies it. Science marches on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of course, this research will not occur until 20 years after
      HJPEV makes this speech, so Harry is right according to the science
      of the time. I include the Hot Hand discussion because it was, 25
      years ago, a good example of non-scientific experts believing
      something that scientists could "refute" (with the data at hand)
      but it turns out that the <em class="calibre7">unscientific belief had something
      going for it</em>, was not obviously wrong, and may in fact be
      true.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Skeptics - Be aware that its not just the unscientific who are
      sometimes smugly wrong. Be doubly aware when criticizing domain
      expertise in a highly competitive, high-stakes field where people
      are usually searching for an edge, however small.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
