<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 19: Asymmetric Warfare, Part 2, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s19" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 19: Asymmetric Warfare, Pt 2</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"People promise according to their hopes, but perform
      according to their fears." - Lucius Malfoy</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">They came just after midnight, hours after the battle ended.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By tradition - almost as old as Hogwarts itself - Slytherin
      plots inside the dorms were limited to maneuvering. No fights, no
      thefts, no duels (saving Slytherin Duels) took place in the
      Dungeons itself. A Slytherin could rest safely inside his room,
      inviolate, protected by tradition. Pranks occurred, but actual
      attacks were unheard of.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco heard a quick shout, then <em class="calibre7">Somnium!</em> cast three
      times. Gregory slumped off his bed just as Draco's eyes opened,
      then his sight was cut off quickly, a bag placed over his head, and
      a few punches thrown in for good measure. There were voices,
      muffled voices, and Draco was carried away. Thoughts of <em class="calibre7">they
      wouldn't dare</em> mixed in his head with a voice that replied
      <em class="calibre7">they did</em>. Draco thought they were taking him upstairs, but
      they doubled back and went down. Draco could tell they passed
      through the common room, and now the voices spoke up, more jovial.
      <em class="calibre7">How many were there?</em> The hands holding him circled his
      biceps easily. Older students. <em class="calibre7">His wand</em>? Probably dropped
      besides his bed. <em class="calibre7">The Sigil?</em> Draco thought for a moment,
      then decided to hold that in reserve.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">They mean to scare me. Not kill me.</em> Thinking it didn't
      make it less scary.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eventually they threw Draco into a chair and ripped the bag off
      his head. There were just three assailants, Draco thought there
      would be more, but just three. <em class="calibre7">Maybe some had left?</em> The
      wall torches flickered behind his captors, they hadn't bound him
      but then again he had no wand, and they were upper years. Draco
      could see the stairs leading up and out, but couldn't make it past
      them. They wore black robes and black gloves, but plain white masks
      shone dimly in the reflected torchlight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There didn't seem to be anything worth saying, at this
      point.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The tallest one cast <em class="calibre7">Petrificus Totalus!</em> Draco went
      rigid in his chair, but didn't quite slide out of it. His breathing
      grew more ragged, shallow. Two others started casting
      <em class="calibre7">Frigidero</em> while the tall one created water and doused
      Draco repeatedly. Their voices were distorted and impossible to
      recognize, but Draco didn't think the tall one was Robert Jugson. A
      bit too round. Maybe he was just hoping, though. Draco started
      shivering and, as the temperature got colder, panicking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It hadn't been real, his duel last spring with Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He hadn't actually been cursed by a Blood Cooling charm. But
      fake memories feel just as vivid as real ones. Draco remembered
      lying on the wooden floor, shivering and unable to move. He
      remembered getting so cold that he felt hot, wished he could slip
      out of his robes but limbs too tired to move, teeth not so much
      chattering as vibrating.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a few more spells his captors seemed satisfied. Draco
      shivered but it wasn't that cold, nothing compared to the Blood
      Cooling curse. The tall one kicked Draco's feet up, he slid out of
      the chair and cracked his head against the stone floor and his
      vision exploded into lights.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, you just stay here and think about how we don't need
      saving. We've gotten along fine without Little Lord Malfoy and
      we'll do it again this year." They doused him a few more times,
      cast a few more Frigidero spells, and extinguished the torches.
      Draco shivered, alone, and tried to get his breathing under
      control.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Over here!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco focused and saw Harry's face over him as several spells
      freed him and warmed him up. Gregory, a hard look on his red face,
      burst down the stairs followed by Padma Patil, wand out. A second
      later, Colin Creevey came. Gregory helped him up, then handed him
      his wand. Draco pulled himself into the chair, not really listening
      to any of the questions or comments. Potter was saying something
      about contacting the Headmistress.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can't, Harry," Draco said, "You <em class="calibre7">know</em> you can't.
      No! You handled your bullying yourself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"General," said Padma, reaching out and touching his still wet
      sleeve, "this isn't just bullying. All the upper classman, in the
      common room, you know what they were doing this morning? Casting
      <em class="calibre7">Aquamenti</em> and <em class="calibre7">Frigidero</em>. To put out the fire,
      they said."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco realized the implication. <em class="calibre7">Any inspection of wands will
      hide the culprits. A show of solidarity, against me.</em> Draco
      took his wand and dried himself, fixed his clothes, hid his
      bruises. .</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose I should lose," he said calmly. "There's too many of
      them and they are unified, apparently. They aren't playing by any
      rules. It's the smart play." Draco, who spent last night
      remembering the false memory of his near death, felt his blood run
      cold. "I suppose I should." Draco made his decision and quickly
      went up the stairs, taking them two at a time, as Harry shouted
      after him. Gregory ran behind him, whispering in his ear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Calm down. Don't do anything rash. <em class="calibre7">We can handle them</em>,
      if you think about it. We've been doing well, we just misjudged.
      We've got allies, we need to figure what to do." Gregory's words
      ended when they made it to the public area, the common room full of
      laughing upper class students who smiled and waved, overly amiable.
      Padma hadn't exaggerated much, if at all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter came up the stairs just in time to see Draco, face
      composed, walking back into the common room with Gregory by his
      side. Gregory's wand was out, as was Draco's. Draco's left hand
      held his cane, he tapped it slightly along the ground as he
      walked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry reached for his wand. Padma, seeing Harry's motion, drew
      hers as well. Draco walked over to a large upperclassman. The room
      hadn't gotten quiet, students still chuckled as Draco stopped in
      front of MacNair, sitting in a plush chair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco's right hand came up and pointed his wand at the boy, who
      gave a bemused smile and said with mock indignation "Why Malfoy,
      what has gotten..." Draco brought down the cane hard against the
      floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a loud <em class="calibre7">crack</em>, Draco Malfoy and Michael MacNair
      disappeared from the Slytherin Common Room.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">In the white haze MacNair reached for his wand and Draco lifted
      up his cane, shoving the head against the older boy's cheek.
      Michael gave a start as he realized the snake head was hissing,
      fangs bared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you know, Michael, we keep a Krait at Malfoy Manor. It's the
      symbol of my house, but don't you think that's carrying it a bit
      far? Who keeps a deadly snake as a pet? Around small children? Why
      would you do that? I never really considered it until I got this. I
      wouldn't reach for your wand." Draco moved the cane up slightly,
      and now the fangs dominated Michael's view, a scant inch from his
      eye.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Michael's hand slowly slipped out of the robes. Draco lowered
      his cane, slightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I honestly have no idea if you were the ringleader behind that
      stunt, a participant, or just found it amusing. I had plenty of
      time to think about it, but <em class="calibre7">I don't particularly care</em>. If
      I get attacked by <em class="calibre7">anyone</em> in the future, I'm blaming you.
      It's nothing personal, but you're one of the oldest and strongest.
      Innocent or not, if I ruin your life everyone will think twice.
      Even if it costs me detention, expulsion or worse. The way I see
      it, if my life becomes a horror I may as well deserve it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco could feel the strain of keeping them isolated draining
      him. Michael started to say something, but Draco didn't have time
      to make this a conversation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So if I get attacked by masked Slytherins I'm blaming you and
      we discover just how many friends are willing to avenge you. Well,
      I find out. You should probably keep that to yourself if you have
      enemies. I'd hate to encourage someone who hates us both."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You just publicly attacked me," said Michael, who had found his
      voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That just makes it interesting," said Draco, then added a sneer
      to his voice. "Just imagine, I'd be the first Malfoy to publicly
      get away with a crime everyone knew he committed." He dropped his
      voice back to normal. "And are you really just going to admit that
      I got the better of you in here?" The snake slowly retracted its
      fangs, closed its mouth and returned to its original form. Draco
      cracked the cane against the ground, and the Slytherin commons
      jumped back into view.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco turned and walked back to his room, ignoring Harry
      Potter's questions, while a visibly shaken MacNair settled back
      into his seat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you think that's supposed to accomplish?" asked Harry,
      when they were back in their room. Draco carefully set his cane
      back on his desk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I doubt anyone will attack Gregory again, even if they
      attack me. That's got to count for something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, we're in this together," said Gregory</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can't just threaten," said Harry over him, then they both
      stopped. Draco's eyes shifted between them, and he realized that
      Padma had started to follow them in, but had stopped in the
      doorway. He waved her in. Colin Creevey, thankfully, was nowhere to
      be seen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did I threaten anyone?" said Draco. "Did you see me threaten
      anyone? MacNair won't say anything. That's not how things
      work."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, just like we are always safe in our dorm," said Gregory.
      "I don't think we can rely on that anymore. I'm not saying it was a
      bad move, whatever you did."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You escalated," said Harry. "But I understand. I've done my
      share of things that weren't smart."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just because it isn't the smart play," said Draco, "doesn't
      mean it was wrong."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Padma let out a sigh. "What can we do to help?"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Author's Note</strong> - Lucius's Quote is actually by
      La Rochefoucauld.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
