<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 20: Acting Headmistress, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s20" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 20: Acting Headmistress</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Always remember: others may hate you, but those who hate
      you don't win unless you hate them, and then you destroy yourself."
      - Lucius Malfoy</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Acting) Headmistress McGonagall looked down at the young Malfoy
      boy sitting opposite her desk. He'd gawked at the various devices
      scattered around the room, which was only natural. She'd done the
      same when she'd first been in the office as a student, and during
      her interview. It had taken years to get used to their strange
      presence. McGonagall spent an hour every day during the summer
      investigating them, to no avail. Every item had an obvious purpose
      or was totally inscrutable. From the dial with eight hands, to a
      small bulb that changed colors imperceptibly slowly and smelled of
      oranges, to weirdly shaped thing that <em class="calibre7">vrooped</em> once every
      few weeks, Minerva had no idea what they did. Worse, she'd begun to
      suspect that her very desk was more <em class="calibre7">in-</em> than
      <em class="calibre7">-scrutable</em>. She'd appreciated the sherry that had turned
      up in the lower left drawer the second night of school, but it
      certainly hadn't been there that morning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco Malfoy had gawked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But unlike other children summoned to the office - she still
      thought of it as Dumbledore's office - Draco Malfoy didn't glance
      around worriedly. He didn't tremble, or sweat, or reveal any
      nervousness. She'd left him sitting there because <em class="calibre7">that's what
      you did</em> to children summoned to the office, checking in a
      mirror to make sure you looked every inch the Headmistress. But
      when she'd swept into the room and sat down Draco wasn't examining
      the room to avoid her piercing stare - he'd already made eye
      contact, held it for a beat, then released it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco's examination expressed polite interest in his
      surroundings, and no fixation. As soon as she spoke, Draco focused
      on her again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Malfoy," she said, "I was going to assure you that you were
      not in trouble, but seeing as how you need no such assurance I will
      simply ask what exactly happened last night."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A group of older students thought it would be fun to kidnap me
      from my room. They stunned Gregory, dragged me out, paralyzed me,
      and left me down in the dungeons for the night, after dousing me
      with water and lowering the temperature." Draco's voice held no
      bitterness, she noted. The reports described Draco calmly composing
      himself before returning to the Commons and and disappearing with
      Michael MacNair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And how, pray tell, did they get past Mr. Potter as well." It
      wasn't really relevant, but Minerva had been dying to know. Harry
      dealt with bullies handily enough last year, she found it amazing
      that they could have gotten past him so handily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, <em class="calibre7">he</em> slept through the whole thing." Draco's voice
      took on a slightly nasal tone, just for a word or two, and then
      returned to normal. But he did smirk, some private joke. "Harry can
      sleep through anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And as to what happened this morning?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For which I am assuredly not in trouble," Draco said, making it
      sound like a statement instead of a question. "I decided that I
      would have some words with Michael MacNair. I suspect he knows the
      ringleader, if it isn't actually him. Obviously it had to be a
      private conversation, to be effective. He couldn't very well tell
      me the culprit in public. But he chose not to reveal that
      information."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The annoying thing, Minerva thought, was that it could all be
      true. If only Draco had flown off into a rage and attacked someone
      she would have understood. But he seemed so calm and had enough
      ready answers that she felt her anger slowly rising. She tried to
      keep it from her voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And did you threaten Mr. MacNair?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I let him know that I considered him culpable, and that he
      should use his considerable influence to handle the situation. Did
      he say that I threatened him?" Draco sounded mildly intrigued by
      the thought, and Minerva had to clamp down to keep her anger in
      check.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Malfoy. I rather like you, despite your Father. As Deputy
      Headmistress I would have never dared say that. But as Acting
      Headmistress... I find I shouldn't behave the same way." She paused
      and tried to gather her words, arrange them correctly. "Right now
      the family resemblance is striking. But you don't remind me of the
      first or second year Lucius Malfoy, a charming lad like yourself.
      Now you look like a smaller version of the cold, calculating
      seventh year that I despaired of redeeming."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco's voice took on a hint of sadness. "Last May I knew that I
      would be Lord Malfoy some day, but that was the distant future, too
      far away to imagine. It didn't <em class="calibre7">affect</em> my thinking much.
      Having it suddenly thrust upon me, at such cost...I suppose it
      has," Draco's voice trailed off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Still, I think you should hold onto our childhood for as long
      as you can. If there is anything I can do to help." She saw Draco's
      eyes flash, but he just shook his head. She sighed. "Well then,
      about your cane."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Headmistress?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There is some concern that a student as young as yourself
      should not have such a powerful device."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Openly, you mean." A small twitch of disapproval escaped before
      she clamped down on her reaction. Draco continued, "Hermione has
      the good sense to leave her Phoenix in her dorm. That sort of
      thing. But I haven't taken my Sigil to classes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nevertheless, Mr. Malfoy, You must send it home."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco considered for several seconds. "That cane ... what I did,
      provides everyone a convenient excuse to leave me alone. They can't
      back down from someone so young. Just like the bullies couldn't
      back down from S.P.H.E.W. last year. They have to escalate against
      me, but against something scary and unknown? Against the symbol of
      my house? They can all quietly agree to let the matter drop and
      give up the fight without losing face. Without relying on your
      office or Harry Potter or anyone else."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor Slughorn is certainly capable of controlling his
      house," she said with more conviction than she felt, and resolved
      to have a long discussion with Horace about what had been going on
      in Slytherin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not like Professor Snape," said Draco. "He needs more time, and
      I need time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall considered this. "If all you need is a symbol, I
      don't see a problem with that." She opened up a drawer and started
      pulling out a surprising array of objects, shoving others aside,
      and them mumbling to herself before finally revealing what looked
      like a beater's club, but slightly longer and flatter. The
      Headmistress took out her wand and waved it over the club, and it
      <em class="calibre7">shifted</em> in form to the size of Draco's cane. A few more
      swipes of the wand and the two objects appeared identical, although
      the Headmistress could feel the difference, the power in the
      original cane.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will keep your cane here for the time being, or you can have
      it sent home. This," she said, handing him the Transfigured club,
      "should work admirably as your replacement. I advise against trying
      to transfigure anything for so long, Mr. Malfoy. I doubt someone so
      young could handle the strain, and this club has certain
      enchantments that will allow me to maintain it at a distance until
      Christmas break."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco took the cane, judging it's heft. He nodded, sadly, while
      the Headmistress continued. "If you need to beat someone over the
      head with it <em class="calibre7">in the heat of the moment</em> I will take into
      consideration the fact that I removed a more subtle option. I
      should give you detention, you realize, for your comments," she
      sighed, "and I most certainly would except for the fact that it
      would encourage your tormentors. You may go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco got up to take his leave when she added, "I do want you to
      know that I regret what I said about your Father at Hermione's
      trial. I meant it, but it was in a moment of extreme stress and I
      certainly did not consider that it might reach your ears. I wish
      you to be the delightful child I remember instead of the man he
      became. If not forever then for as long as possible. You may
      go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco, who had frozen during her speech, made a small bow. "I
      understand. Thank you, Headmistress," he said, turning to
      leave.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Acting Headmistress, Mr. Malfoy," she automatically
      corrected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Acting Mr. Malfoy, Headmistress," he replied sadly as he walked
      out the door.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Author's Note</strong> - Lucius Malfoy's quote was also
      said by former U.S. president and honorary Slytherin Richard
      Nixon.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
