<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 23: Correspondence, Part 2, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s23" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 23: Correspondence, Pt 2</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Do not mistake hesitation for caution. - Lucius
      Malfoy</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco sat carefully at his desk, it was dark, so he took out his
      wand and cast Lumos once, carefully placing his wand so the light
      didn't wake Gregory. Draco had spent the last few days thinking
      about his encounter with the vision of Dumbledore. Had it been real
      or a false memory? Right now he wasn't sure, but he could at least
      verify or falsify what he'd learned. After a minute in the dim
      light Gregory still snored gently, so Draco opened his diary and
      started writing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Falsifiable predictions made by Albus Dumbledore (?) on Harry
      Potter Day:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Voldemort's original name is Tom Riddle</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Voldemort possessed Professor Quirrell</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Voldemort killed Nicolas Flamel</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco paused, then rubbed his thumb along the last line, which
      disappeared from the journal. Draco already knew Flamel had been
      murdered that night, so it didn't count as an advance prediction.
      In any case he had no way to investigate a complex, months old,
      distant murder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco considered what else he'd heard. He started to write Harry
      Potter is, in some way, Voldemort. But that didn't count as an
      advanced prediction either. Everyone already wondered that. That
      thought had consumed Draco for months, and yet he didn't feel any
      distrust towards Harry. Concern, perhaps, but not distrust.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Was there some way to make a more specific prediction about
      Harry? Something bolder? Dumbledore had said "All of Tom Riddle's
      icy brilliance," the phrase stuck in Draco's mind. Draco chewed in
      his quill and thumbed through the transcript he'd written after
      waking up. Now he wasn't looking at what Dumbledore said, so much
      as what he implied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter arrived on the scene in a way that surprised
      Dumbeldore, but not Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco remembered the final moment, where Dumbledore realized
      he'd lost and thrown away his long wand and the much shorter dark
      stone rod, instantly recognizable to all members of the Wizengamot
      and, in some cases, their heirs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus Dumbledore was trapped in an elegant device (a mirror?)
      like the one I saw.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmistress had said he was lost in time, and seeing him
      repeat like that mattered, but she hadn't mentioned a mirror. So
      that counted as something new.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore threw away his wand and the Line of Merlin
      Unbroken</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Which raised the question: Where did Amelia Bones find it?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco sighed, even if he managed to verify this information the
      memory still could be false or planted, but at least it would have
      been planted by someone who knew something approaching the truth.
      In plays investigations only took a few hours. Real life seemed so
      … messy, especially after last year's attempted murder and the last
      few months, Draco realized. Draco picked up his quill.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">To do – Figure out how to prevent false memories, or if my
      memory is tampered with.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco paused, and then the letters wrote on their own.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I</em> <em class="calibre7">do not believe that memory is false.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco stared at the page, then quickly scribbled <em class="calibre7">Why
      not?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Because I keep your secrets</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco wrote further questions, but the words did not change, and
      his questions stay unanswered.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">To: Gringotts Bank</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">From: Draco Malfoy, son of Lucius son of Abraxis Lords of
      the Noble and Most Ancient House of Malfoy, son also of Narcissa
      daughter of Druella Lady of the Noble and Most Ancient House of
      Black, scion and heir of the Noble and Most Ancient House of
      Malfoy:</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">As is well documented, both in journalistic accounts such as
      in the Daily Prophet and by the official investigation conducted by
      D.M.L.E. (now Chief Warlock) Amelia Bones: my Father Lucius Malfoy,
      formerly Lord of the Noble and Most Ancient House of Malfoy, died
      at the hands of Lord Voldemort sometime during the night of June
      13th or morning of June 14th, 1992.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">As is also well documented, Lucius Malfoy's late wife,
      Narcissa Malfoy, Lady of the Noble and Most Ancient House of
      Malfoy, did not appear before the Wizengamot until June 19th.
      Before that time she was legally dead.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">This fact is also not in dispute.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Narcissa Malfoy's death was not in doubt to Lucius Malfoy at
      the time of his death, as the revisions to his Will from over a
      decade ago make clear. Lucius Malfoy made provisions for myself in
      case of his death and no mention was made of his late wife. While I
      am not fully of age, the facts and the law are clear: Narcissa
      Malfoy is not my legal guardian, nor I her ward, and while I do
      have reduced rights (due to my age) over my vault, <span>she has
      none.</span></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Therefore, in accordance with the Last Will and Testament of
      Lucius Malfoy (&amp;c &amp;c), of the Most Noble and Ancient House
      of Malfoy, I, Draco Malfoy (&amp;c &amp;c) do instruct Gringotts
      bank that:</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">First, the Lady Narcissa Malfoy (&amp;c &amp;c) has no claim
      to any of the wealth currently stored in the Malfoy vault at
      Gringotts. I wish to receive a personal letter, delivered to
      Hogwarts, acknowledging that fact.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Second, please continue to allow Lady Malfoy to make any
      reasonable withdrawls and show all the courtesy to which a customer
      of Gringotts is due. Reasonable withdrawals shall total no more
      than 400 Galleons monthly. Please send a copy of all transactions
      to me at Hogwarts.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Third, Lady Malfoy shall be allowed into the vault, but may
      not remove any magical artifacts from said vault without my prior
      approval. Non-magical trinkets and all ladies jewelry is
      pre-approved, and I will send a complete list after my inventory,
      which I will conduct over the Christmas break. Please let me know
      the days &amp; hours that Griphook would be available to
      assist.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">You will receive an Owl from my solicitor, confirming this
      instruction and requesting copies of all relevant
      correspondence.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Draco Malfoy, Heir and Acting Lord of House Malfoy.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco read over the letter, checking his wording from the
      template his solicitor had provided, then sealed it, and placed it
      on his desk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He didn't wake up Tanuxa, she'd get to it later, after her
      morning hunt.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco, Gregory and Harry were walking back from another session
      of the Bayesian Conspiracy when Harry, feet automatically moving
      him back to his room, woke up from his reverie and ask "Draco, How
      long is a good plot? I mean, a good plot should be short, but
      what's the longest that a good plot has lasted?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory just shook his head. He'd gotten used to the odd
      questions that Harry sometimes asked, but that didn't make them any
      less odd.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You aren't just counting feuds are you? Those can last
      centuries, but aren't really plots. As you point out, shorter is
      usually better. Some plans just take time to come to fruition, you
      can't grow a plant any faster than it grows, so if you need a
      branch off a hundred year old oak planted on a full moon then you
      have to wait a hundred years. Some plots just take time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not counting that," said Harry, "I'm talking about a long
      term strategy that requires active planning and modification."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco thought about it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, dynastic maneuvering lasts generations, and never really
      ends. Just the Noble Houses fighting for position."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I'm not counting that either. That's a zero-sum social
      game. I'm talking about something with a beginning, middle and
      end."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"OK, I can think of several that stretch out a decade. Maybe
      two. Typically any play based on history will cover a plot that
      long, but those are probably embellished. Mellar's plans before he
      even arrived at Castle Black are rumored to have taken well over a
      century, but that story predates Merlin and supposedly all of the
      participants were a thousand years old. And he got thwarted anyway.
      It's tough to plot out a century, how could he know someone who was
      barely fifty would intervene? So, discounting that," Draco chewed
      on his lip for a second,"I'd put the upper limit at maybe twenty
      five years. For serious plots, not career climbing or dynasty. Even
      twenty years is rare. Pretty much any good plot of that length
      becomes a play, although I suppose it's just barely possible that
      someone pulled off something better without ever bragging, even on
      their deathbed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That makes sense," Harry said, "Professor Asimov has one of his
      stories about a plotter who can predict the future and plans out
      thousands of years, but it's just a story, and even then he has
      people actively modifying it after he dies. I think he has a line
      'To succeed, planning is not sufficient, one must improvise as
      well.' I had given a range of ten to thirty years, so it's good
      that your number matches with mine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why do you ask," Gregory piped in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I was just wondering what the record was," said Harry.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
