<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 24: Asymmetric Warfare, Part 3, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s24" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 24: Asymmetric Warfare, Pt 3</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"People do not despise others for their vices, they despise
      those who lack virtues." - Lucius Malfoy<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Slughorn, slathering jam liberally across a piece of
      toast, turned to Adjunct Professor Lockhart and said "You know if
      you do this, things could get ugly." Slughorn then slid the toast
      into his mouth, grabbing a croissant</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Asimov, sitting on Slughorn's left, fiddled with his
      strawberries and cream. He'd tried to eat healthier since
      rejuvenation and didn't want to get fat, not with long decades
      stretched out in front of him and a vividly compelling
      counter-example sitting beside him. He stared at Draco Malfoy,
      nibbling on his breakfast and talking with several Slytherins at
      once.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't think they'd attack him in public like that, do you?"
      Isaac said, putting down his spoon and greedily eying the
      pastries.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If things turn ugly it will be due to <em class="calibre7">your</em> meddling,
      Horace. I don't imagine they would," said Professor Lockhart,
      cutting into a sausage, "I mean, that doesn't seem clever.
      Practically every teacher will be watching."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," chuckled Professor Slughorn, "that's the thing about
      cleverness. A plan some quivering Hufflepuff considers clever would
      seem terrible to a smart Ravenclaw. Then a bold Slytherin pulls it
      off. So, was it a clever plan? Should our Hufflepuff try it? <em class="calibre7">Of
      course not</em>, he'd muck it up." Horace had used his fork to stab
      a piece of sausage and waved it like a baton, swinging it towards
      the various Houses tables at the appropriate point in his
      discussion. Now he took a bite, then continued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But the Ravenclaw wasn't correct, either. A plan can be clever
      and not clever at the same time. Hufflepuffs and Gryffindors never
      deal with ambiguity like that. Loyalty and Bravery aren't mercurial
      and fluid. Cleverness and ambition wax and wane like the moon.
      Shirkers think that too many witnesses makes a flawed plan,
      ambitious students see an opportunity. I mean, you can't watch
      <em class="calibre7">everyone</em> while judging a battle, can you Gilderoy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Asimov leaned across, "You … you're prodding them into
      it, aren't you? Plotting against your own students!" Slughorn
      chuckled and reached for a danish. He liked the little cheese ones
      best.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Isaac," said Professor Lockhart cautiously, "Well, you are
      right of course, but that's how these things are done. I may have
      issues with his methods, but Horace's ... meddling produced a slew
      of immensely talented individuals over the decades. But exactly who
      are you promoting, Horace? Malfoy doesn't join your little chats,
      but Zabini does."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have a wide variety of interests," sniffed Professor
      Slughorn, "and I'll ruefully admit that my methods are blunter than
      usual, but you have no idea the mess I inherited from Severus. I'm
      hoping to limit the damage to several expulsions, personally."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Expulsions?" said Professor Asimov, "You are angling to get
      your students expelled? That seems drastic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can't all be good students, Isaac," said Professor Lockhart,
      "I might have turned out better if I'd gotten a shock like that at
      fifteen. Not that I did anything worthy of expulsion, mind
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, if you had been in my house, you would have," chuckled
      Horace Slughorn, stretching his arms out and patting both his
      colleagues jovially on the back, "but I think you've turned out
      well enough in your own time. Looking back over my history, I
      played it a bit too close to my chest at times. Perhaps last year
      could have been avoided, if I'd trusted my judgment a few decades
      earlier."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You … you taught Voldemort," said Professor Asimov too loudly,
      then looked out over the House tables. Professor Lockhart saw his
      glance. But the assembled students kept up their chatter without
      pause. Professor Asimov remembered what he'd been told, magic kept
      students from overhearing anything said at the teacher's table
      unless a Professor specifically addressed the students.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't worry, we all do that a few times. That's why we have the
      spell," said Gilderoy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know that," said Professor Slughorn, dropping the
      remaining half of his Danish and shoving his plate away. "No. I do
      know that, but I didn't admit it to myself. I'm not certain, but it
      all adds up. My greatest mistake. That boy had such potential I
      blinded myself to his danger, told myself that no mere teenager
      could outwit me. If he'd been expelled he might have turned out
      just as poorly, but at least my hands would be clean. He might have
      very well lashed out right away, limiting the damage. No ... I
      think things would have turned out better if there had been a few
      more expulsions in the past. Maybe, one every few years, perhaps
      ... one or two? Yes. Two expulsions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Isaac had just picked up his spoon and taken another tentative
      bite of his strawberries and cream when Horace added "Or one
      murder, I suppose."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The Howler exploded as dawn broke besides the lake, the last
      wisps of moonlight glittering off the surface, turning the morning
      fog silver. The howler ripped open along the edges, noise pulsing
      outwards, screaming "<em class="calibre7">Good morning Slytherins</em>" loudly, with
      an elongated drawl. Nobody in the dungeons heard, of course.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Startled by the howler, Draco whipped awake, wand out, sitting
      up so quickly that he tumbled out of a small green cot onto the
      dew-laden grass. Gregory's face appeared as he leaned over his edge
      of his cot. They glanced at each other and heard the rest of the
      shouts and exclamations as the Slytherins woke up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did we get out here," "What's going on," "Fifteen more
      minutes, just fifteen..." "Why are we by the lake," the murmuring
      grew into conversations into shouted accustaions until finally a
      second howler appeared overhead. This one opened slowly and
      deliberately. It didn't scream, but the voice carried well over the
      lake shore, echoing slightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good morning, my young apprentices," Professor Lockhart's voice
      boomed across the lake, "As I mentioned in our last class, today
      the N.E.W.T. armies, along with some selected fourth years, are
      conducting battlefield exercises. I promised you an exciting
      spectacle. What I <em class="calibre7">may</em> have neglected to mention is that in
      any real war there are civilian populations. You can define
      civilian in any number of interesting ways I suppose, but I define
      it as people who don't particularly care about the outcome of the
      battle. It most certainly doesn't mean non-combatant."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco looked across the group, boys from the first four years. A
      mere hundred yards along the shore he spotted another cluster of
      cots and a blinking and stretching coterie of Slytherin witches.
      Two mermen poked their heads above the lake, stared at the Howler
      and assembled students, then disappeared underneath the still
      water. Scanning the crowd, Draco accounted for every healthy
      Slytherin of third year or below, except Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That didn't surprise Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"War can come at any time, often you only have the vaguest of
      hints and little time to prepare. In short, wars inevitably lead to
      refugees, simulated today by my younger students. All younger
      students have been transported onto the battlefield for the
      duration of the battle, although each house has has been put into a
      different area. Because this simulates a sudden evacuation, we only
      transported the items you slept with – although clothes were
      provided in a few cases. Large capacity items, such as mokeskin
      bags, are still in your rooms. If you proclaim that you would have
      taken it with you, well, you may be right. But often refugees find
      that someone stronger may steal what you have saved."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At this, a large groan and several students started crying,
      Draco had started sleeping with his wand after the night he'd been
      abducted. A quick pat of his robes revealed that his mokeskin pouch
      didn't get transported with him. However, he felt the reassuring
      bump of his pocket flask next to his heart. Draco raised an eyebrow
      at Gregory. Gregory flashed his wand, gripped tightly in his hand.
      That made two.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Refugees, as a rule, have a single goal. <em class="calibre7">Survival</em>. But
      I'll concede that watching this battle is more fun that being a
      refugee, which means my more clever students would be tempted to
      get themselves killed, have breakfast, and enjoy the show. To help
      align our incentives anyone killed before sundown tonight will have
      detention for the rest of the weekend. Those restrooms <em class="calibre7">do</em>
      clean themselves, but they can always use some extra shine! But
      this wouldn't be interesting for our N.E.W.T. students if every
      refugee behaved the same, there are always a few idealists
      interspersed with the displaced masses, people who don't fear death
      as much as others. Which leads us to my next point..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sky, lighter as the sun poked over the water, darkened
      slightly as a massive fluttering of wings approached carrying the
      morning mail. Unlike most mornings every student got a letter.
      Draco didn't recognize the owl, a large woodland brown owl with a
      cruel beak that landed on the side of his fallen cot. It hooted
      twice, dropped a letter, and then flew off without even looking.
      Draco reached over and opened it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Draco,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Be careful. Some of your Housemates mean you actual harm.
      Simulated dying is to be much preferred to actual death, and you
      will receive no detention if you die to avoid real danger. If you
      need to discuss your situation, I am always willing to
      help.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">G.L.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco read the letter quickly. He started to hand it to Gregory,
      but it burst into flame. <em class="calibre7">Of course</em>, thought Draco,
      <em class="calibre7">nobody should be able to verify your motivation by some in-game
      scroll, where's the fun in that?</em> Draco walked over to Blaise
      Zabini, who saw Draco's wand and shook his head mournfully. Since
      the upper years were combatants, Draco probably didn't have many
      enemies in camp. Draco cast <em class="calibre7">Sonorus</em> and addressed the
      crowd.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The armies will be here shortly. If you have anything useful,
      like a wand, let one of the Generals know. Our first order of
      business is to make sure that any army that comes by has a strong
      interest in leaving us alone. Do you like scrubbing toilets? No?
      <em class="calibre7">Then we want to be left alone</em>. First years, gather up any
      wand shaped twigs. Anyone with a wand, let someone borrow it so
      they can transfigure the twigs to make them look more like
      wands."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They wouldn't last long, but most second years could turn twigs
      into wands and maintain the transfiguration for a while, at least
      while they held the twigs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were brooms overhead. Draco saw two, three, four
      formations. The fliers coming from the North East veered towards
      the western group, and spellfire flew between them, red, green and
      a cone of purple that produced a thunderclap and sent the water
      rippling. Powerful spells.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anyone with a good plan, talk to one of the Generals. Everyone,
      lets move towards the witches, safety in numbers. Take your cots!
      They may be useful." Draco canceled his spell, then summoned his
      <em class="calibre7">patronus</em>, it floated in the air besides him, tongue
      flicking tentatively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Find Neville Longbottom, we'll give him any information we come
      up with, as long as they do the same. Right now I don't have
      anything to offer. I'm just a refugee, no special goals." Draco
      glanced at the broom overhead. All of the armies must know the
      positions of the underclassman by now, no point in hiding it.
      "Slytherins are on the lake shore, if he wants to form up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco nodded and his Patronus slithered off. He started jogging
      towards the witches, pausing only to pick up a twig and start a
      Transfiguration. As he jogged, he glanced around at roughly half of
      House Slytherin. Combined on the lake shore, not split into
      armies.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Modest stakes, for the rest of them. Nobody would be making a
      serious attempt on Zachary Smith or Blaise Zabini, so they didn't
      have to worry about that. But nobody relished detention. Draco
      couldn't convert enemies today, but he could make dozens of friends
      and solidify some lukewarm allies. All he needed to do was figure
      out a way to save them all. Draco stumbled again as another spell
      crackled overhead, sounding like the whimpering of whipped dogs.
      Draco smiled, reaching into his robe for his flask.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">General Wood sat on his broom, hovering a dozen feet above the
      ground, a safe distance above the assembled Slytherins. They'd
      built up a barricade of cots. It wouldn't stop any real spells, but
      it did make it difficult to see who was who, and the gaps fairly
      bristled with wands pointing at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A suspiciously large number of wands, Oliver thought. He pulled
      his broom up a bit higher, next to Fred Weasley. "What do you
      think, Fred?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is Potter down there, hiding?" asked Fred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Oliver shook his head, "I saw him in the bleachers."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then it's a bluff," Fred said firmly. "Some real wands, but
      probably not many." He peered down inside the barricades, and saw
      the Slytherin generals conferring. "Malfoy's tricky, and not just
      Slytherin tricky. Potter's rubbed off on him. Me an' George swap
      ideas with him, and he's good. And you've seen him fight."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Oliver kicked away, and then shouted down to the Slytherins.
      "PARLAY?" There was a huddle, and several patronus rushed away in
      all directions. Mist, snake, owl and maybe a sparrow. A shout came
      back ... "AGREED." Draco Malfoy walked away from the rest of his
      generals, hands up, no wand showing. After his brief show, he
      jogged towards a small hill and past it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Oliver Wood landed the broom just as Draco took a small swig
      from his flask. "Can you believe they didn't provide us food or
      water," Draco asked, smacking his lips as he put the flask away. "I
      choose this hill because for all I know someone in my camp has a
      grudge against your army, and I don't want to be accused of
      plotting against you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean someone has a grudge?" Draco just shrugged
      "Lockhart sent every one of us a letter explaining how he'd judge
      if we won or lost. Most of us just need to survive, but I have no
      idea what every letter said. That's true of every camp, by the
      way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You've been in contact with them, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco nodded, slowly turning, surveying the scene. The brooms
      had mostly disappeared, early scouts just getting the lay of the
      land. Even second years knew the value of good battlefield
      intelligence. Plans were being made now, but there were still
      skirmishes when groups encountered each other unexpectedly. Oliver
      followed Draco's gaze and saw spells coming from the non-forbidden
      forest, a few trees had caught fire but a small rainstorm appeared
      overhead to douse the flames.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We sent word about your offer of parlay, so if you attack us
      now, the other camps will know they can't trust you. So, what do
      you want?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We need a logistical support and more soldiers," said
      Oliver.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you are offering ..." Draco drew out the question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We could just take it. Armies are press-ganging the others as
      we speak."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"General Wood, I like you, I trust you. But I don't trust your
      orders. For all I know you drew the Voldemort chit this game and
      want to murder everyone. And if we do join with you, you'll face
      the same problem. Someone may have a goal of murdering a General,
      or aiding your enemy, and I don't even know how many teams there
      are. So if I made a deal with you, I could only say that most of
      the people involved won't try to betray you, and some would
      actively help you. If you want, I'll ask for volunteers and we
      won't stop anyone who wants to join you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That doesn't seem like much," Wood said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you want me to recommend we join up with you, we need real
      concessions as a show of good faith. We keep our wands, you can
      execute traitors, but no mass retaliations. Volunteers only for
      combat missions and our logistical support people get a reasonable
      sized garrison. And two brooms for us to use"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Two brooms? Get serious. I could just kidnap you and destroy
      your group. From what I've seen, that may be better. At least we
      wouldn't be tied down defending everyone and watching our backs.
      And it would eliminate a threat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco slowly pushed back his robe to reveal his dueling holster
      strapped to his left arm and the wand it held. Oliver had his wand
      out and pointed instantly. Draco pulled out the wand by the tip. He
      kept the wand pointed at himself, then slowly brought his other
      hand up and snapped the wand in half.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He dropped two halves of a wand, but only snapped twigs hit the
      ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now you <em class="calibre7">can</em> murder me," Draco said, "But kidnapping me
      is useless, unless you loan me your wand. From my point of view, I
      win if you murder me. I loaned my wand to someone else, and I'll
      have an ally in real life if he gets to use it for the rest of the
      day. You can leave us alone, and rest easy in the knowledge that no
      other general can use us, or you can try to kill us all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The fire in the non-forbidden forest grew dimmer, and the rising
      cloud of steam reflected the morning sunilight. Draco shrugged and
      started back towards the rest of the Slytherins.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It probably won't even cost you two of your soldiers. But
      you'll have lost two," Draco added, "and all those armies will have
      gained how many?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Oliver Wood paced, then went back to his broom and kicked off
      the ground, hovering. This wasn't good at all, but he had to make
      the most of a bad position. Just his luck, being close to the
      Slyltherins. He turned back to Malfoy and asked "What do you need
      the brooms for?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Rescuing survivors from other camps and some defensive
      patrols," said Draco. Oliver thought about it, then took a quick
      flight to examine the Slytherin contingent and confer with his
      officers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One broom now to Goyle and he flies with us. You get the first
      broom we capture and any more that Goyle brings down or your people
      personally scavenge, but he's part of our team."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gregory would enjoy that," Draco agreed. "What else?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I counted at least three or four patronuses, we add those
      people to our signal core or combat operations, their choice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco thought about it, "We keep our wands. No trying to figure
      out which ones are real, and no mass reprisals if there are
      traitors?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wood nodded, "I didn't draw the Voldemort chit. You try to sniff
      traitors out before they attack. And you take your wand back from
      whoever you loaned it to and assist as I see fit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Put Weasley in charge of the garrison defenses and I can sell
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Done," said Oliver as they shook hands, making sure that the
      brooms overhead as well as the Slytherin camp saw.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ten minutes later, joint operations began.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Daphne Greengrass suddenly pivoted, shifting her aim. Draco
      didn't have time to shout, he'd already started casting, swinging
      his wand towards Daphne and he finished <em class="calibre7">Stupefy</em> right as
      she did. Daphne fell to the ground suffused by the red glow that
      indicated a casualty of war. A mere twenty feet off to her right,
      Oliver Wood lay sprawled on the ground besides his broom, glowing
      red, victim of Daphne's treachery.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dammit," said Penelope Clearwater, "I thought you vouched for
      her." Penelope's wand pointed at Draco while the rest of the squad,
      what was left of it, watched. Penelope's free hand brushed away the
      sweat of the mid-afternoon sun. It wasn't that hot, but they'd been
      moving and fighting for hours.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I did vouch for her," Draco said, "and you saw her, she did
      fine. What can you do when someone hides in your midst for hours?
      Maybe she had an objective of killing General Wood." Oliver had
      only joined this squadron in the last half hour, his prior group
      dead. "This doesn't change the deal. I held up my side as best as I
      could. And in any case, killing me doesn't help you. " The squadron
      exchanged glances, shoulders hung low.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco didn't know the exact situation, they'd cut him out of a
      planning, fearing treachery, but he'd sent some messages and seen
      their army whittled down. Maybe other armies took heavier
      casualties, but he didn't think so. Draco could read it in the
      downcast eyes and slouched shoulders. They'd lost – they'd had hope
      as long as they had General Wood – but it died with him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They were in an endgame, on the losing side. But chess teaches
      that sometimes you could sneak out a draw despite being down a few
      pieces.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco looked up at the sun through the trees – through edge of
      the forest - trying to gauge the time. His stomach growled, they'd
      barely eaten anything. "I figure we just need to hold out for an
      hour," he said trying to rally them without sounding bossy, "let's
      find a place to hole up, ride this out." Penelope had resuscitated
      Olivier and Daphne, who trudged off the field without a word.
      (Speaking after you died was <em class="calibre7">unrealistic</em>. Roger Davies
      tried to impart some crucial information in spite of Professor
      Quirrell's ban last Spring. Professor Quirrell made sure to take a
      few minutes from his next lecture showing a recording of Davies on
      the battlefield, coughing up chicken feathers and making sad
      gurgling noises in front of his horrified squad mates. Nobody tried
      to break that rule anymore).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco saw the approaching brooms, five of them, with a sinking
      heart … all older Slytherins. He spotted MacNair's face from
      beneath the robes. Draco couldn't tell about the others but they'd
      stripped off any army insignia. No time for a logical decision,
      Draco acted on instinct. He reached into his robe, took out his
      flask, and drank the last of the Felix Filicis in several gulps,
      ignoring the looks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco had maybe two hours of luck.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the first drop hit his stomach, Draco felt clarity. Some
      options fell away instantly, Draco knew he couldn't talk his way
      out of this. But he could see that Penelope and the others would
      let him go, if he just gave them some hope. Draco ran to the broom,
      and the others turned their wands to him, but he just shouted "It's
      an ambush, but they're after me, I'll lead them off." Penelope
      lowered her wand and the others followed their lead. "Head into the
      forest, keep low, they can't follow you on brooms anyway." Draco
      kicked off. He started North, away from the oncoming brooms, but
      instinct told him to head West, towards the lake and the makeshift
      refugee camp. At least, that's what it had been this morning. He
      accelerated as fast as he could, and he heard the shouts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"After him," came Hestia's screeching voice. Draco didn't bother
      casting any hexes, there were too many of them. He stayed low to
      the ground, and sometimes made a quick turn, just a few degrees.
      Spells kept narrowly missing him but the others were getting
      closer. He could see the refugee camp ahead, and he aimed to go
      past it as close as possible. He might have enemies in the camp,
      but he doubted they'd be able to hit him. But if anyone behind him
      had an enemy...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After he passed the camp, he veered back, heading directly into
      the sunset while over Hogwarts lake. None of the people chasing him
      had been shot down, but they'd been shot at, which gave Draco time.
      Draco saw brooms ahead, a grueling dogfight. Four brooms, moving
      faster than he was - even at full speed - but these brooms flew in
      jagged arcs, suddenly veering and darting. Seekers and Beaters and
      Chasers, but Draco's instinct said to head straight for them and he
      did. He elevated, gaining altitude to join the dogfight. One of the
      brooms glowed red and fell from the sky, splashing into the water,
      followed a second later by a second splash. Draco heard Gregory's
      triumphant whoop.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Incoming," Draco shouted, passing between the other two brooms.
      Angelina Johnson almost fired at Draco, then turned to her
      team-mate and shouted "Ignore him." In calmer times Draco may have
      protested but he didn't feel offended when the two brooms shot off
      towards his attackers. Draco banked hard left, heading back towards
      land.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, what's up," Gregory asked casually. Draco looked over his
      shoulder and Gregory was there, slightly above and just behind him,
      robe pulled up over his face to keep the brunt of the wind out of
      his eyes. Draco pulled his own robe up to cover his face, then
      glanced back over his shoulder, the brooms behind them made
      complicated patterns, a furball of maneuvers and spells.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's MacNair and Hestia and the others, after me," Draco
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If we go around the forbidden forest we can make it to the
      spectator stands," Gregory answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's faster if we go over," Draco said. "Well over. We need at
      least twenty feet clearance." Draco glanced behind them, the brooms
      were catching up. Why did Oliver Wood own such a terrible broom if
      he played Quidditch? If he'd been alive, Father would surely have
      bought him a Nimbus 2001 by now. <em class="calibre7">If he'd been alive</em>. Draco
      ignored the thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If we go that high we'll be easy to track," Gregory said. "They
      just took down the other two, but there are only three following us
      now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We've got time, I can feel it." Draco felt drawn towards the
      forest, he just knew that he should head into the forest. Given his
      luck so far, he didn't question his instinct to go there. Draco
      gained altitude again, broom not even slowing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory said, "Warn me if you break," then moved in closer, put
      his hand out, fingers brushing Draco's broom. Gregory turned his
      head, looking over his shoulder and took a long look, letting
      Draco's broom guide him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're back and climbing. Maybe in spell range in a minute.
      Someone's pursuing them, but too far back to matter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco nudged his broom up slightly. Gregory rose with him, while
      Draco explained "There's some webbing in the trees and a mist over
      the forest, twenty feet isn't enough."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Webs?" Gregory said, worried, but didn't look forward. They
      passed over the boundary of the forbidden forest and Gregory
      spotted the webs behind them. "Another broom just kicked up, eight
      o'clock. Coming fast."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Break right on three, take any shots, into the mist. I'll break
      left. Meet you near the stands but stay in bounds," said Draco.
      Gregory started to protest but Draco just said "Trust me! One, two,
      three!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory whipped his head forward on two and ducked under Draco,
      turned hard, but Draco's foot grazed the edge of his hood and
      knocked it back as Gregory climbed towards the mist. Gregory –
      realizing that they'd all follow Draco now that they could tell
      them apart - started to dive and ignore the orders, but there were
      webs everywhere and he climbed up and disappeared into the mist,
      having to take his time to circle back safely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco dived low, knees brushing the treeline. He weaved between
      webs thick enough to hide him, narrowly dodging the sticky
      tendrils. The brooms behind him had to slow down to navigate, their
      speed advantage wasted. Draco felt a pull, lower felt safer and if
      he stayed visible Gregory would find him and risk himself. Draco
      dropped below the treeline, moving slowly. Branches scratched his
      face, light peeked through in small beams. He heard a muffled
      <em class="calibre7">whumf</em> behind him, and branches shook.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The screaming sounded like Hestia.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco quickly dropped to the ground. He wasn't sure, but he felt
      like he had maybe a quarter of a mile to the edge of the forest.
      The forest was thick here, he doubted anyone could spot him unless
      they moved. Draco heard a scuttling, and his instinct told him to
      veer right, so he did, confidently walking a mere foot past the
      triffid.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Vines quickly entangled his arm and jerked him ten feet into the
      air. Draco felt the sharp searing pain as foot long thorns ripped
      into his shoulder, piercing straight through and grinding hard
      against his bones.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a flash and Draco heard someone shout his name and
      then heard nothing.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Author's Note -</strong> Lucius' quote is (again) by La
      Rochefoucauld.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The next chapter will be published in two weeks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A note on the Hot Hand discussion from earlier. Science marches
      on! See /2015/07/09/hey-guess-what-there-really-is-a-hot-hand/</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
