<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 25: Security Conscious, Part 1, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s25" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 25: Security Conscious, Pt 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Security means imposing costs on your friends to inflict a
      much greater cost on your foes. To make something perfectly secure
      means rendering it useless." - Lucius Malfoy</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco screamed as thorns ripped into his arm and shoulder.
      Hermione was running towards him, shouting, her Phoenix launching
      off her shoulder, beak opened in a wordless scream. The vines
      around him writhed, engulfing him. He dangled sideways a dozen feet
      above the ground and then there was a snapping and his arm was at
      the base of the tree, roots move and pulling his fingers slowly
      towards a grotesque maw...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco woke up groaning, remembering the pain, the pulling and
      snapping. He lifted his left arm and <em class="calibre7">felt it move</em> but the
      sheet covering him didn't raise, just bulged beneath his shoulder.
      His left arm tingled - <em class="calibre7">Draco felt it tingle</em> - but didn't
      seem to work. Draco opened his eyes - the brightness shocked him
      for a second - but he focused and made out the row of beds opposite
      him and the small table beside him. Draco shuffled his feet and the
      sheet pulled down from his chest and he saw the bandages on his
      shoulder, the stump that ended several inches lower. His arm was
      gone. Draco sucked in air. He wanted to cry out but it didn't
      hurt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He remembered Hermione's shout, and the fluttering of wings.
      Mostly, he remembered the pain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco looked around with a start and realized he wasn't in
      Hogwarts, but in Peverell. He recognized the rows of beds and the
      Aurors posted at the emergency entrance, he heard the primary
      Thief's Downfall splash in the distance, and the secondary Downfall
      activate nearby. The sun shone directly down through the skylight
      (too small for a man to fit through and loaded with traps for
      anything smaller) not much time had passed, or several days
      perhaps.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A shadow appeared over Draco and his eyes tried to adjust as he
      blinked them a few times.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Eh, this better not be one of your tests, lad. I've got my eye
      on you." Draco focused on the brilliant blue eye swiveling around,
      then quickly snapped his eyes shut.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alastor Moody hadn't bent over to look at Draco, he kept his
      head up and wand out. He didn't bother looking down at Draco, just
      spoke a bit louder so he could be heard as he slowly circled in one
      spot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think I'd give up my arm just to help you," Draco said.
      He heard Moody chuckle then move away. Draco cautiously opened his
      eyes and saw Moody across the room, inspecting other patients.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Orderlies moved around the patients, comforting them, getting
      them water, preparing to move them. Draco recognized some of them,
      the middle aged nurse with the small ash wand that liked Chocolate
      Frogs. The intern studying Healing who practiced his scowl but
      screamed like a girl when Draco offered Weird Sisters tickets.
      Draco had learned quickly enough that everyone who worked at
      Peverell <em class="calibre7">took</em> bribes, but didn't <em class="calibre7">stay</em> bribed. Not
      about anything important, anyway. Even for his tests. Every five
      minutes or so the orderlies moved a patient out. Some of them
      groaned, but the room felt pleasant as it always had.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nobody here complained or despaired, like in a regular
      hospital.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, now, giving up an arm wouldn't stop some people," said
      Moody, stomping around the room. "Do you think I complained about
      losing my eye? My foot? Anyway, that was the past. Now you aren't
      losing an arm, so much as <em class="calibre7">misplacing</em> it for a few hours.
      Barely an inconvenience at all." Draco remembered the grinding in
      his shoulder socket, the tearing and pulling as his arm ripped off,
      but decided not to press the point. Draco watched an orderly giving
      water and noticed Moody's eye lingering on that particular orderly.
      The young man looked to be about thirty, and had hair nearly as
      blond as Draco's own, although with a wild unkempt look. He was
      simply going from person to person, giving them water and barely
      talking. Moody's wand covered the room in intervals, but seemed to
      pause on that orderly, as if desperate to cast. Draco felt a strong
      urge to talk to that orderly, there was something about him, and
      that's when Draco realized <em class="calibre7">He felt the liquid luck still racing
      through his system.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Shouldn't it have worn off by now? Maybe it didn't get used up
      if you were unconscious. Hey may have only been out for half an
      hour, for all Draco knew. People probably didn't get knocked out
      and lose an arm when they used it, before. Losing an arm seemed
      unlucky. But misplacing it for a few hours? That could work.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco coughed and asked "Could I get some water?" He waved at
      the orderly, dressed in simple grey robes. Coupled with his pale
      skin and blue eyes, people might think he was Draco's cousin. The
      man came over and handed Draco a cup, and water wordlessly
      appeared. Draco propped himself up so that he was sitting, then
      drank deeply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nearly dying is thirsty business.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do you stop wandless magic in here, anyway?" Draco asked
      Moody, who just gave a barking laugh and left, muttering to
      himself. The orderly's eyes followed Moody's departure closely,
      then he turned back to take the glass and his eyes widened with
      shock. He sat down next to Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have seen you here before. You are a student, helping perfect
      security. What happened to your arm?" Draco caught the accent and
      started wondering if there was some branch of the family in
      Germany, because Draco knew he'd seen a portrait of this man
      somewhere. Possibly in a cousin's house? A formal sitting portrait,
      perhaps. The orderly had been older, had lines on his face and
      greying hair, but still the same piercing blue eyes. But age didn't
      mean much, if you worked in Peverell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Draco put down the cup and held out his hand. "Draco
      Malfoy. I stumbled onto a Triffid, I think."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, A Malfoy. I met an Abraxas Malfoy let's see, fifty six
      years ago I believe. Gellert Grindelwald." He shook Draco's
      remaining hand firmly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco felt too stunned to say anything other than "Abraxas was
      my grandfather."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Was? I am sorry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you. Dragon Pox, two years ago. At the time, it seemed
      like a natural thing. We all said it was simply his time, so it
      didn't seem like a tragedy. Of course now," Draco started to widely
      gesture towards the room that he knew contained the Chalice, but he
      was trying to use his left hand. They were moving another patient,
      a wizard who looked to be pushing one-fifty and had exceedingly
      long hairs coming out of his ears. Draco pointed with his right
      hand and shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, now we live in the Age of Wonder. I find myself shocked to
      be witnessing it." Gellert spoke with the formality of a bygone
      age, and seemed patient with long pauses.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wonder about that as well. I don't suppose you can tell me -
      for my security research - why they trust you? I mean, clearly
      Mad-Eye Moody does not trust you." Draco reached for his glass of
      water, which Gellert refilled and handed to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I cannot tell you about security. Of course I am under an
      Unbreakable Vow, as are most around here, although mine was ...
      more extensive than usual. But even if I were free from compulsion,
      I would not tell you. It is not that prison reformed me - although
      the toll of the years does weigh heavy - just that I now have a
      chance to actually help the greater good, and that is better than
      dying in prison. So I agree with those who offer my parole; they
      need me, or people like me. I give my word and after the vow they
      trust me. Except for Alastor Moody, he thinks I may have some way
      to defeat the Vow. That I may have devised such a scheme in
      Nurmengard." He paused to refill Draco's cup.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But they just have you as an orderly! That doesn't make sense.
      You could do anything to help them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do <em class="calibre7">this</em> because I wish it. My job takes little time,
      and I do not wish to spend the remaining time alone in my room. I
      have not spoken with many people, and those who I offer water think
      me a kind young man, until the staff tells them. Only the truly
      young, such as yourself, do not react with horror. You have read
      about it in books, yes? But they lived it. They hate me for what I
      did. And the Aurors and staff, they are like this as well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, in your spare time you comfort the wounded, and you'll be
      stuck here for the rest of your life? I suppose that's better than
      isolation in prison..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, no. Once my magic weakens enough, I will be released. I
      have taken one vow, but have bound so many others."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They won't turn you into a Muggle, will they?" Draco didn't
      hide his horror. Draco no longer hated Muggles, but the thought of
      his own magic draining terrified him. Seemed unnatural. He supposed
      it was better than life in prison, but it would be like losing an
      arm. <em class="calibre7">Permanently losing an arm</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I suppose I will be as powerful as a seventh year. Perhaps
      weaker, but I will have the knowledge to compensate. They are
      bringing in another batch of recruits for security and once I bind
      them I suspect I will be free to go. Time served, as you say."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What will you do? You should teach!" As soon as Draco said it
      he realized it would never fly. He considered other options. They
      would have to be appealing to Grindelwald, a proud man although one
      apparently not so proud as the youth in history books.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are too kind, but Durmstrang expelled me. <em class="calibre7">They</em>
      would not offer me a position. I am an embarrassment to them. I
      will certainly get no offers from another school, but I will find
      something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Would you consider tutoring me, over the holidays? I couldn't
      afford this full time, but just for a month I suspect I could."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I doubt your family would want to be associated with this. What
      would your parents say?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I <em class="calibre7">would</em> have to talk to Mother, but I've typically had
      the best tutors, although nothing like you. And it would just be a
      few hours a day. We could spend some time trying to find you a
      suitable career. My family still has connections, although less so
      than after Voldemort's defeat. You'd have better luck in London
      than Europe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was planning on going to the Americas - where memories are
      short - but I will consider your idea. It is not without
      merit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At this point a Doctor – Draco struggled for a moment and came
      up with Zharkov, but didn't think he knew the first name. Doctor
      Zharkov sported a neatly trimmed brown beard speckled with gray and
      wore the red robes that Peverell had instituted for medical staff.
      "There are other patients, Gellert. Draco, it's time to fix up your
      arm. I'll just need to put you to sleep for the procedure." Draco
      knew patients were always unconscious when they went through
      healing, just to keep the details hidden. The doctor pulled out his
      wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco placed the cup on the table and slid back down into the
      bed. Gellert said his goodbye and stood up, barely brushing the
      doctors arm as he cast <em class="calibre7">Somnum!</em> But the slight touch sent
      the spell into the sheets next to Draco, barely missing him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco, realizing what had just happened, snapped his eyes shut
      then relaxed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"</em>Watch what you are doing, Gellert! If it were up to me
      we would have never let you out!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, it was up to <em class="calibre7">your superiors</em>, Hans<em class="calibre7">,</em> and
      they did. Besides, the boy is asleep. You know I cannot interfere.
      It was an accident. I would not touch you on purpose."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Doctor Zharkov grunted and Draco heard the <em class="calibre7">Levicorpus!</em>
      And felt himself lifted off the bed and several pairs of hands
      guide him down the hall and into the medical procedure room. As
      they passed through the door, the second Thief's Downfall splashed
      on him, cold, but he'd been expecting it and didn't gasp or react,
      and it disappeared shortly. (Draco realized months ago that he
      could mimic the visual effect of the Thief's Downfall with a
      slightly modified Comed-Tea, but hadn't figured out a use for that
      tactic). Draco felt himself placed gently and then all the spells
      on him were dispelled. He could feel his arm itching, but he didn't
      hear any casting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Perhaps they cast wordlessly? But why? It required more effort
      and healing didn't need the element of surprise. Draco let his head
      slowly loll over to the left side and cracked his left eye barely
      open. He could see a delicate wand flicking above him, and a wooden
      mannequin arm being attached. He was lying on a padded table but
      was actually resting on a stretcher, it seemed. It happened
      quickly, already the arm up to the elbow looked just like his old
      arm, perhaps a touch paler. Draco closed his eye and thought about
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Free Transfiguration was wordless. You envisioned the form. Like
      every student who ever took Professor McGonagall's course, Draco
      had memorized the rules for transfiguration and they jumped out at
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Transfiguration is not permanent!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I will not transfigure any living subject! It will make you
      sick and possibly dead.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">If this were a fixed transformation, they'd say a charm. Draco
      shoved back his panic. He knew that other people had been cured, so
      obviously this worked. No doubt healers specialized in this, so
      there was no need to panic. Peverell had replaced plenty of limbs.
      After another minute or two he felt Doctor Zharkov lift his arm,
      massage the muscles, stretch out the fingers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"OK, that's good. Finish up." He heard the Doctor go back
      through the downfall and then he felt the poles on either side of
      him lift up as he was carried (carried?) through a doorway opposite
      the one he came in. The stretcher was placed gently on another
      table and Draco risked cracking his eye open, again. The room, the
      part he could see anyway, looked identical to the previous one in
      size, but less ornate. One hand placed a stone on Draco's arm. It
      was small and blood red, perhaps the size of a scarab but
      irregular, like a sculptor hadn't finished polishing it. Draco
      didn't feel anything in his arm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco did feel like he'd pressed his luck hard enough. He didn't
      feel the confidence and presence of Felix Felicis - hadn't felt it
      for a few minutes - so Draco closed his eyes thirty long seconds
      before he felt the stone turn slightly on his skin. Draco was sure
      that nobody else had moved it, he'd heard the orderlies step away
      from him. But right after it turned he heard Chocolate Frog Witch
      say "OK, he's set" and grabbed the Stone off his arm while the
      other orderly cast <em class="calibre7">Levicorpus</em> on him and floated him
      gently into the recovery area.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
