<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 26: Security Conscious, Part 2, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s26" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 26: Security Conscious, Pt 2</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"How did you avoid getting damaged during the War,
      Father?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Everyone gets damaged, Draco. You just continue
      on."</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The healers floated Draco, still pretending to sleep, into the
      recovery room. Draco knew that patients who woke up prior to
      recovery got obliviated. He half expected to be obliviated in any
      case. Draco had walked the area often enough - probing for security
      weakness - and knew that most patients got up within about half an
      hour, inspected themselves, and left.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No slow recoveries at Peverell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco spent twenty minutes trying to consider what he had
      learned and what it implied, but his mind kept going back to his
      arm ripping off, the pain, and then the flash of fire as Hermione
      arrived with her Phoenix, right before he passed out, the world
      blurred behind tears. Draco replayed is several times, shivering.
      He couldn't focus well. Without the distraction of something to do,
      something to learn, Draco relived his memories. After a few more
      near-deaths Draco heard Mad Eye Moody clomping around, and felt
      relieved to be back in the present. The footsteps stopped at his
      bed and Draco forced himself to keep his breathing regular, but not
      too regular. After a minute or two they clomped off. Draco counted
      out five minutes before 'waking up.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His robes spoke volumes. The left arm was torn ragged at the
      shoulder, mud and blood caked together turning the normally black
      clothe an angry brown hue, streaked with red. Draco sat up and
      spent a few minutes poking his left arm. It felt ... like his arm.
      He'd had a small mole below his elbow, now missing, and the color
      seemed paler below the shoulder than above it, but it looked like
      his arm. His hand worked normally, and didn't hurt. Not now, at
      least.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello Draco," said a young witch who'd walked up to the foot of
      his bed. Draco hadn't noticed, he'd been entranced with his new
      arm. The witch had long black hair under an outlandish oversize
      hat, wide brimmed and trimmed with gardenias. Her robe was stylish
      but ill-fitting, and she had a long grey shawl thrown on top of it.
      She looked to be a sixth year, maybe sixteen or so but Draco didn't
      recognize her. Draco stared at the hat again, and the witch started
      laughing. Not a girlish giggle, but a strong guffawing laugh.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco remembered where he was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Madam Longbottom?" The witch stifled her laughter long enough
      to make a formal curtsy that may have been in style during Abraxis
      Malfoy's youth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I happened to be in the stands watching this battle – they've
      become quite the event, you know, particularly the massive battles
      that involve all classes – and was sitting next to the
      Headmistresses when we heard the commotion. Neville had already
      been knocked out of the fight, he did quite well and I know from
      his letters that you and Potter have been tutoring him,"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think he would come along in any case," Draco
      interjected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, well, I know he's also been talking to you about his
      parents. Like I told you last summer, it's rare that we both got
      someone back, and Neville hasn't had an easy time of it. Well, they
      wouldn't let anyone in to see you, some hogwash about security, but
      they couldn't very well deny me my cure, now could they? I must
      admit, I am rather delighted by it." She started to laugh, but then
      caught herself and giggled, which made her seem younger still. She
      twirled around, giggling. "You know, I've always felt like I was in
      my twenties, even yesterday, although I know how I looked. But the
      years creep up. I didn't remember how it feels, to be young!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Most of the people I've seen choose to be in their
      mid-twenties, or perhaps thirty," Draco agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, if you are going to get young, <em class="calibre7">get young</em> I say.
      I asked for a few years younger but the healers refused. Times were
      different from now, when I was this age, the first time. Now I plan
      on enjoying every moment of it, but I did want to make sure that
      they took good care of you, and to thank you for your talks with
      Neville, and those lovely thank you notes. That means a lot to an
      old woman," she said smiling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm doing well, thank you. All things considered." Draco
      clenched and unclenched his left hand, and suddenly realized he had
      no idea where his wand was. In the grand scheme of things, it
      didn't matter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, then, I suspect your friends are all waiting. I'll pop
      you back to Hogwarts, and won't we make quite the entrance?"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Despite her promise – or threat – Augusta had simply escorted
      Draco over to the Hogwart's infirmary then quickly took her leave
      before she could shock Neville or any other students. Madam Pomfrey
      fretted over Draco for a few minutes before releasing him. As he
      left Draco spotted Hestia Carrow lying asleep, bandages covering
      half of her face and most of her body. Asleep she looked just like
      any other girl, not the bloodthirsty witch who'd attacked him
      several times this year. Draco felt bad for her, for a brief
      moment. He'd been watching her for about a minute when Harry Potter
      walked into the infirmary.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stopped beside Draco. "It's funny, in a way. You were so
      badly hurt they simply had to fix you up, but her wounds will heal
      normally." Draco shot him a glance and Harry said, "I figured you
      didn't want to talk about it – that's kind of normal – so I'm just
      making small talk. I grabbed one of your spare sets of robes from
      the room, if you want." Harry reached into his mokeskin pouch and
      said "Draco's Robes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After Draco had changed they walked in silence for a few
      minutes, slowly descending from the infirmary back to the school.
      "So," Draco asked, "what happens now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have no idea. Detention for going into the forbidden forest,
      but beyond that? I don't know... " At that moment Draco and Harry
      turned a corner were face-to-face with a scowling Professor
      Lockhart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Beyond that," said Lockhart, "we will see. Come with me,
      Draco." He turned down a hallway and strode off without waiting for
      Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We'll talk later," Draco said under his breath, then caught up
      with the Professor. Lockhart quietly reached into his robes – the
      motion set off alarms in Draco's head, but the Professor pulled out
      Draco's wand and handed it to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was a stupid thing to do, Draco," said Lockhart, handing
      back Draco's wand, "A calculated risk, I suppose, but stupid. But
      since I had an inkling that something like that might happen no
      harm done. Still, you should know better than to rush into
      uncharted territory that you've been explicitly warned about."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wasn't thinking," said Draco, and realized it was the truth.
      He'd merely followed wherever the liquid luck had guided him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, you weren't. Despite what Potter doubts there is a serious
      debate about expulsions, although Professor Slughorn is talking the
      Headmistress down. Look, I'm worried." Professor Lockhart stopped
      and turned to face Draco. "Not just about the attacks. I know
      you've gotten in over your head in … something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco hoped he betrayed no sign of the shock he felt. "Oh, it's
      just school work and stress."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know for a fact it isn't that," said Lockhart icily, "but I'm
      not going to pry. You are flying bareback on a Dragon and holding
      on for dear life. You hide it well, but not from me." Professor
      Lockhart turned and strode off, still talking. "I know it's
      important, at least, you consider it important. When the time
      comes, I hope you remember my offer to help."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco's head was whirling. Professor Lockhart seemed ... eerily
      well informed. Draco considered further and realized that the
      Professor hadn't actually said anything concrete. He'd made
      guesses, spun a vague story that made Draco feel important.
      Lockhart probably had been informed by his other professors.
      Slughorn seemed friendly with him, and had probably played both
      sides as well as his own game. After a few more steps Draco's
      confidence returned, but he'd already started speaking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, Professor. It feels good to have an ally like you in
      this." Two months ago Draco would have considered the matter
      settled, but now he knew Lockhart wasn't a stereotypical Gryffindor
      who could be placated by appeals to glory and vanity. He suspected
      the Professor saw Draco's acceptance as a stall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That didn't make stalling wrong, just less effective.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"On a more practical matter, would you like me to lock away your
      memories of the attack?" asked Professor Lockhart, "Most people
      find that kind of thing unpleasant, and they suffered a lot less
      than you did."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco considered this for several steps. He definitely needed
      his memories of the recovery. Professor Lockhart piped up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can leave in the details, the knowledge, but you wouldn't
      remember how it felt, just that it happened. Like you read it in a
      book."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco felt sorely tempted. "My memories are who I am," he said
      flatly. Professor Lockhart shot him a questioning look, then
      shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where are we going, anyway?" Draco asked, to change the
      subject.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, we're here," said Lockhart, as they stopped before the
      Prefect's restroom outside the great hall. "You did die before
      sunset, I'm afraid. Rotten luck, that."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Monday Morning</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor Asimov," Draco said, "Thanks for the insights into
      the Muggle legal system ... systems, I guess." They were in
      Proffessor Asimov's study, Draco had a few questions about the
      Muggle legal and financial system. Harry's snide comment about
      wizarding lawyers being 'cute' had stuck in Draco's mind and he
      wanted another opinion. Professor Asimov had used the American
      legal system as a reference, but the facts were boggling. Contracts
      that were hundreds or thousands of pages long, lawyers working in
      teams, trials taking years. Madness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco stifled a yawn. Even by his standards he hadn't slept well
      the night since his encounters with the Triffid, when he had
      nothing to do but remember.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do have one other question. My friend Harry Potter said that
      Science Fiction has solved - or at least addressed - problems that
      magicians have, if you can just translate the ideas correctly. But
      unlike him I haven't read it my whole life..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you need, Draco?" said Professor Asimov.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Suppose we have a creature that's clever and useful, but
      dangerous. In the past we'd just avoid and kill them, but we have a
      spell that can force this creature to do what we want."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very convenient, that," said Professor Asimov. "But this sounds
      remarkably like slavery," his tone was dark.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It could be construed that way, but the spell can be shaped to
      be minimally restrictive. We could make this creature do whatever
      we want, but we could just say 'Don't kill anyone.' But these are
      clever, malevolent creatures and they hunt for loopholes where they
      don't kill directly, but still harm and injure. Even if we wanted
      to, we couldn't setup on an exhaustive condition of rules. But the
      spell is draining. Permanently. And the more instructions given the
      more power the caster looses, so we want to give a minimal set of
      instructions that can cover all situations cleanly, and don't leave
      any loopholes, while still granting the creature full use of it's
      abilities. We don't want to cripple it, at least any more than
      necessary. I realize this is probably something far fetched …."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do believe I have just the thing," said Professor Asimov,
      pulling <em class="calibre7">I, Robot</em> from the shelf.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
