<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 27: Problem Solving, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s27" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 27: Problem Solving</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Great plotting can be learned. Perhaps it can also be
      taught, but if so I do not know how. You must use your experience
      and intuition, those are the best teachers I know of. At best, I
      can only teach you how to avoid bad plots." - Lucius
      Malfoy</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The Bayesian Conspiracy, now one larger, found time to squeeze
      in one last session before exams and winter break that didn't
      conflict with Draco's detention. Harry had used the delay to help
      Blaise get up to speed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know that I said I'd try to discuss how you come up with
      solutions," Harry said just as Draco was walking in, still covered
      in dust. "For something practical in battle. It's actually
      surprisingly difficult for me to describe this. I don't want to
      sound like I'm bragging, but usually I just kind of … see the
      solution. Then I double check it. That's important, because
      sometimes you see the wrong solution. But it's hard to explain how
      I do it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How can you do something but not know how?" Blaise asked. His
      cat-like eyes had narrowed to slits, like he still expected an
      ambush, but he didn't seem shy. Zabini radiated a confidence Draco
      suspected he didn't feel. Draco cast a few minor spells to clean
      himself up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gregory," said Harry, "You've seen Neville fly. You're the best
      flyer here. What's Neville doing wrong?" Neville let out an annoyed
      snort, but didn't contradict Harry. Daphne giggled a bit, until
      Hermione gave her a piercing look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"His balance looks off," Gregory said after a pause. "I can't
      really explain."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gregory can't explain because true mastery means doing things
      automatically, without thinking. Some great artists can tell you
      why they picked a colour, but others would just say 'It looked
      right.' If Gregory stopped and thought about what he was doing when
      he was flying, he'd fall out of the sky. Like Draco said earlier
      this year, in a battle you don't feel like you are thinking. When I
      solve a problem, <em class="calibre7">I solve it</em>. Sometimes I have to think
      about how I'm thinking about it, but sometimes I don't. Anyway, I
      went back and solved some puzzles since last time and <em class="calibre7">paid
      attention to how I thought</em>, so I can explain it better. But I
      had to do it with maths puzzles," he finished sheepishly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone groaned. Harry continued. "Sorry, but it's easier to
      explain and experiment with. I won't do anything complicated but I
      had to pick something simpler. A battle just has too many variables
      for me to explain. This is more about technique. But look, here's a
      puzzle. You have to make an 8 digit number, using each digit 1-4
      twice. So, 11223344, or 12341234. Something like that. But you want
      to make one so that there is exactly a single digit between the two
      '1's, and two digits between the '2's, and three between the '3's
      and four digits between the '4's. It's not really even a maths
      puzzle, see? Just a regular puzzle using digits. Go ahead and try
      and do it, and think about what you are doing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took out some paper and pencils. Hermione took one and
      started writing figures and scratching them out. The others
      reluctantly followed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come on," said Harry. "<em class="calibre7">Try it</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione got the answer quickly, but three minutes later nobody
      else had solved it. Neville, sweat beading on his forehead,
      fidgeted as he started again. Draco had been scratching out numbers
      and writing new ones diligently, but showed no progress. Harry had
      been walking around and looking over shoulders. "OK, The rest of
      you are stuck. Let me give you a hint."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Problem solving is about meeting constraints. In a battle your
      constraint is what spell or strategy to use. In this, it's the
      order of the digits. But what if you have a lot of constraints?
      Deal with the most restrictive constraint first. That usually
      narrows down the solution space – the number of different answers
      you have to consider – quickly. There are lots of 8 digit numbers.
      Even if you only consider those with the digits 1-4 twice. We don't
      want to try them all. We want to solve the hardest constraint
      first. The one that narrows down the possible answers fastest. Now
      try it again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's like you are speaking another language," Draco complained
      as they started again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He does that a lot," said Neville. "I thought you'd be used to
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This time Blaise and Daphne got it relatively quickly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry still walked around the room, inspecting work and offering
      encouragement. "Maybe it's a maths thing, Draco. Don't let it block
      you because it's not your standard subject. In this case, the
      constraints are how you build the numbers. You can't change the
      fact that it has 8 digits, or the fact that it has four pairs of
      numbers. Those are just part of the problem. But how you arrange
      them, those are the constraints. What's the most restrictive
      constraint, Hermione?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The fours. They have to have the most digits between them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took out some paper. "Right, there are only a few ways
      that can work." He scratched them out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">4xxxx4xx</p>
      <p class="calibre6">x4xxxx4x</p>
      <p class="calibre6">xx4xxxx4</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The first and last are the same, just reversed. Symmetry is
      another way to cut down the number of solutions, but that's
      specific to math and not often in the real world. Anyway, now we've
      got two candidate solutions. The one with a four at the end, and
      then one with both fours one off the end. So now the most
      restrictive constraint is how to place the threes. If you put a
      three right next to the first four the other three won't fit three
      spaces away. So you can try two places."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">4x3xx43x</p>
      <p class="calibre6">4xx3x4x3</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you can keep going if you have to, or you can just see the
      solution." He pushed the paper to Draco, who examined the two
      numbers above and wrote out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">41312432.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. Or the mirror image, due to symmetry. That's how I solved
      it. Combinatorics aren't my strong suit but If I've done my
      calculations right we started with 1,260 possible legal 8 digit
      numbers that have the digits 1-4 twice. And we quickly came down to
      two patterns that might work with the first constraint, and by
      adding the second constraint we got close enough to the solution we
      could just see it. The constraint let you not have to just keep
      trying random things, and let you get to the answer quickly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anyway, for puzzles like that I have a bag of tricks. But the
      general technique is simple: Understand the problem. You have to
      know what you've got to work with and what you are trying to do.
      You'd be surprised how often just looking at what you can work with
      gives you a clue to the answer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco interrupted. "But in the real world you can do practically
      anything. Not like a math puzzle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's true," said Harry. "But especially in the real world
      clearly defining your goals may clarify the situation. Still, it's
      a good general technique. Anyway, after you understand the problem
      you look how to link what you know and what you are trying to do.
      Then you carry out your plan, you do the solution, examine your
      strategy. And you see if the answer works."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Daphne said, "That's still vague."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "I know. If you didn't have a strategy you could
      just try every legal combination until you found it. That's a plan.
      It's not a great plan, but if you can't think of something better
      it works. Science doesn't care how you get the right answer,
      whether it's counting on your fingers or doing calculus. Efficiency
      comes from practice. Draco, what's nine times seven?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco barely paused "Sixty-three."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right, you didn't have to think. But if I asked for larger
      numbers you'd take longer. If I asked a big enough number you'd
      need a pencil and paper and a lot of time. Just because a solution
      exists doesn't mean you can get to easily, even if you know what to
      do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anyway, here are some techniques I use that don't specifically
      apply to math. But I'll use math examples. You could try to think
      of a similar problem, or a related problem. That may clear it up.
      In the real world history is often a good guide. Muggle Science
      Fiction books often address problems similar to things I've seen
      here, and Professor Asimov is an expert in that field. If you can
      explain the magic he may have seen a clever solution before. I
      found a cool dueling idea in one of his stories and I'm sure there
      are lots of great ideas I've missed. In fact, several of my battle
      ideas came from books. And no, I'm not going to tell you which
      ones."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sometimes I think he reads books just to annoy me," Hermione
      whispered to Daphne, while Harry was talking.<em class="calibre7"><br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If he likes you, he does anything to annoy you," she whispered
      back. Then, a bit louder, "Or if you like him...everything he does
      annoys you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco tried not to show any emotion during that last speech. He
      didn't inspect Harry for any sign. <em class="calibre7">Did Harry know that he'd
      been consulting with Professor Asimov?</em> Draco worried about it
      for a few seconds, then realized it didn't matter. Harry's use of
      Unbreakable Vows weren't much of a secret, the entire staff knew
      about them, so Draco's investigations could be easily explained as
      just testing Peverell's security for weakness. Asimov's Three Laws
      didn't seem to apply directly to Unbreakable Vows, but Harry had
      <em class="calibre7">probably</em> used the approach of simple layered directives in
      an order of precedence, with more layers for Grindelwald than for
      trusted Aurors ... Draco realized his focus had wandered and turned
      his attention back to Harry, who was still talking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What else? You could solve a really simple version of the
      problem, then a slightly harder version, and look for a pattern.
      Proof by induction is messy, but powerful. Or you could try to
      break the problem into a bunch of smaller problems. Or try to solve
      a much harder version..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That doesn't make any sense at all," said Neville. "If I can't
      solve a simple problem how can I solve a harder one?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A harder problem forces you to be creative. For example, if I
      asked you to add up all the numbers from 1 to 10? You'd probably
      just add it up. But what if I asked you to add up the numbers from
      1 to 100? Or a thousand? Or a million?" Harry paused. "Another
      trick is to assume there is a solution. Let me tell you a story. A
      Muggle teacher told his students - kids younger than us - to add up
      the numbers from 1 to 100 to keep them busy. And one kid gave the
      correct answer in a minute. Way too fast to do it the long way.
      Granted, that kid turned into a great mathematician, but he had a
      simple insight."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought this wasn't about maths," said Hermione, to general
      approval.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"OK, let me think about something I can admit to," Harry said.
      "You think about the problem. Don't try to solve it, just try to
      think of what the insight is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry though while they doodled with math. He glanced at the
      papers and said "Daphne's on the right track." Everyone looked over
      her paper. Daphne had written 1,2,3, and then skipped the middle
      and written 98,99,100. They all looked at her paper.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They add to one hundred and one!" said Hermione. "One plus one
      hundred, two plus ninety nine, three plus ninety eight." She drew
      lines connecting them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, that's the key insight. The rest of it is technical, and
      we don't have to worry about the rest. Anyway, the problem I had
      was that newspapers were writing trash about me. My first thought
      was: I need to get them to stop. But that's not the right question.
      This is just like the eight digit number. We need to understand the
      problem. So let's restate it clearly. The Prophet wrote rumours
      about me and <em class="calibre7">I was worried that people believed them.</em> You
      see what that does?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't have to get them to stop, you are just trying to keep
      people from believing them," said Daphne. "So you got them to
      publish that ridiculous story about Ginny Weasley."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, not that exactly. But restating the problem clearly gave
      me the key insight: I had a new way to attack the problem. Anyway,
      after I had the idea I didn't actually implement it. I was here at
      school, in any case. But when Headmaster Dumbledore read the
      article he demanded to know how I'd done it. He thought I'd spent
      my entire inheritance and started working through all the things he
      would have to do to get that story published. When I told him I'd
      just spent forty Galleons he figured it out almost instantly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"By making the problem harder," Draco said slowly, "you gave him
      another constraint, And that was enough."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right. My sunlight potion came from the constraint that I had
      fewer people in my army. Focusing on constraints lets you zoom in
      on the right option."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what if you still don't see it?" asked Blaise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then you try something else. If you have time, maybe you try
      every solution. Look, rationality keeps you from making mistakes
      and it points the way. In science, we build experiments, but
      usually a scientist has a decade of experience to guide them.
      People spent years trying to figure out the structure of a chemical
      called Benzene. A chemist named Kekulé had a dream about it, his
      subconscious gave him the answer. He used the scientific technique
      and skills as a rationalist to build experiments to verify the
      answer. But how he got there was no better than a guess. Sometimes
      you just get lucky, although having a good bag of techniques helps
      you make your own luck. A real problem usually blends many skills.
      With experience, you'll recognize patterns and solutions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry paused. "I know that I warn against seeing patterns where
      none exist. That's a real problem for people. But our minds are
      amazingly good at spotting patterns, so if you think you've found a
      pattern its usually a good idea to test it, even if it just popped
      into your head."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Author's Note</strong> - Polya's "<em class="calibre7">How to Solve
      it</em>" has an extensive list of heuristics and examples for pure
      math problems (not puzzles). I stumbled across the first puzzle
      (the eight digit number) presented here on kottke dot org , which
      often has delightful little puzzles like that (some of which I can
      solve, some of which I cannot). Solving that puzzle inspired this
      chapter.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
