<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 28: Holiday Shopping, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s28" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 28: Holiday Shopping</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"A man who tells lies may hide the truth, but he remembers
      it. A man who tells half-lies forgets the truth entirely." - Lucius
      Malfoy<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">December 22nd</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's ... expensive," said Draco, then hastily appended "Not
      unreasonable, just quite expensive."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Griphook sat across from Draco, in the table set up inside the
      Malfoy vault. He stared at the small boy and screwed his face into
      his closest approximation of a pleasant smile. It came across as
      predatory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You want these things, and you want them quickly," said
      Griphook. His eyes were staring at the cane on the table,
      completely ignoring the quill recording their words into Draco's
      journal. When he'd first entered the vault Griphook had inspected
      the journal with some interest. It was clearly powerful, but not
      made by Goblins. <em class="calibre7">Unlike that Sigil of House Malfoy</em>. Draco,
      trained by history and knowledgeable about the Goblin revolutions,
      wasn't surprised by this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps instead of paying so much up front I could return the
      items earlier?" Draco offered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Griphook shook his head, "To create these items quickly requires
      expensive components and crafting. My already generous terms are a
      token of esteem. Your House has never reneged on a deal and always
      returns our creations in a timely manner."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco nodded. All prior deals were studiously recorded in the
      family history. Griphook's price - though steep - fell well within
      the typical range.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well. You may take payment from my vault as of next week."
      There were no handshakes or contracts. Goblins worked on their
      word, and were truthful to it, <em class="calibre7">if</em> you understood the
      nuances. Draco knew exactly how much House Malfoy had driven the
      subjugation of the Goblin race and he suspected Griphook knew it,
      too. Griphook didn't like him, but knew that powerful people - of
      all races - played both sides from time to time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Personal feelings aside, Griphook would profit from this deal.
      They both knew it, that was all that mattered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Griphook, now acting as an employee of Gringotts instead of a
      personal broker, gave a small bow as he stood up. "Will there be
      anything else?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco made a gesture with his wand, and the quill dropped to the
      table, still. He picked up his journal and examined the record.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will be down here for a few hours conducting my inventory and
      writing correspondence," said Draco. Griphook nodded. Clients often
      wrote inside their vaults for security. "Please send someone down
      an hour before closing, I wish to discuss issues of security. No, I
      have no doubts about the security of my vault, I wish to see if I
      can acquire some similar security measures elsewhere."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Griphook's eyebrows raised. "That would also be expensive, if
      allowed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, in that case I will talk to you about it. Oh, and as for
      our … arrangement. Please do not discuss it with me at any point.
      Simply send a letter when the items are ready and I will arrange to
      have them delivered."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If Griphook thought this an odd request, he gave no indication
      of it and merely said "As you prefer." Draco nodded and Griphook
      showed himself out, closing the vault door securely behind him.
      Draco finished reading the transcript, then picked up the nearby
      quill and wrote out:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">As before, conceal this information until the appropriate
      time.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had barely finished writing when the words reformed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I again counsel against this course of action. It is too
      dangerous.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco considered this, particularly the word 'again.' How many
      times had it been? He didn't know, of course. That was the entire
      point.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">It is dangerous, but not too dangerous. "</em>And there are
      too many <em class="calibre7">Legilimens</em> around," he mumbled to himself. Draco
      put down the quill and the book journal shut abruptly, a chiding
      gesture Draco had learned to recognize. A minor petulant tantrum.
      Draco pulled out his wand, and scanned the vault, as if some master
      thief could breach Gringott's security and follow him here but be
      foolish enough to stand in plain sight. Draco chuckled as he
      steadied his wand, laughed at his own instinct, the useless
      caution. He took several deep breaths and lowered his head to the
      table then pointed the wand at his forehead, concentrating and then
      casting his spell. He felt his panic rise, wondered if it happened
      every time then cast his spell:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9"><em class="calibre7">Obliviate</em></strong></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco put aside the formal letters, and glanced at his watch.
      He'd fallen asleep during his inventory of magical items, so it had
      taken far longer than he'd expected. He barely had half an hour
      left to finish his letters, and he'd been putting off this last
      one. He quickly filled out the cover letter, instructing his
      solicitor for the conditions of delivery. That was the easy part.
      After he finished that Draco pulled out a formal scroll, elegant,
      and dipped his quill into the ink.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">To my friend Harry Potter,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I write you this letter on Winter Break inside Malfoy Vault,
      safe from any scrying. Here it will stay, hopefully never to be
      read, because I have left my solicitor instructions to deliver this
      letter if I die betraying you. I hope it does not come to
      that.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco sighed, dipped his quill into the ink, then continued
      writing.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">December 23rd<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mundungus Fletcher shifted nervously in his booth, both hands
      cupped around his firewhiskey as though it would keep him warm. And
      safe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't fink I don't know Armageddon Robes when I see 'em. Good
      quality, too. Iff'n you want to sell it at some point..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The figure hidden inside the Armageddon Robes sat, unmoving.
      There was a face inside it, but Mundungus couldn't see it. He saw
      nothing but the outline of the cloak. Most wizards say Armageddon
      Robes were forged by the same dark magic that allowed Dementors
      into the world, for the cloaks hid their wearers not by illusion
      but by fear. You could easily find out who it was just by pulling
      back the hood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">If you could overcome your fear.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It wasn't even that gripping of a fear. Nothing nearly as
      powerful as a Dementor. Just a cold chill. Most people could gather
      their resolve and pull back the hood. Few, except Aurors, would
      risk it in any case because wearing an Armageddon Robe advertised
      that you were up to no good and didn't want to be recognized.
      Armageddon Robers weren't a concealment, they were a threat. The
      real fear the robes inspired were that if you pulled them back,
      you'd face the wrath of a powerful wizard who may kill you on the
      spot. The figure in the robes slowly raised his right hand, wand
      pointing at Mundungus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, mate. No need fer all that. I ain't gassed nobody yet and
      you don't want me to know who you 'ar then I don't want to know.
      Mum didn't raise no fools."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wand slowly lowered and the other hand slid a sheet of paper
      across. Mundungus picked it up, read it and blanched.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don' know who told you what, but I don't associate with those
      types. I just buy and sell. Them? They've no respect for the
      working stiffs like me. They'd as like to kill me iff'n I actually
      found them. Murderers. <em class="calibre7">Wanted murderers,</em> not just those
      who you hear rumours about. I just buy and sell." He gulped down
      his firewhiskey.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The figure slowly pushed across a sealed letter then placed a
      bag of Galleons on top of it. Mundungus stared at the bag greedily.
      "I'm not promising nuffin," he said as he picked them up and they
      disappeared into his sleeves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco Malfoy, hidden by the Armageddon Robes he'd found during
      his inventory, smiled to himself and got up from the table.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Dec 26th, Boxing Day</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry, Vince and Gregory all unwrapped their boxes and opened
      them. The remnants of their late lunch were still spread across the
      table.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I got us all an identical set of dress robes," Draco said. He'd
      considered getting Harry some Noble robes as well, but that would
      leave Vincent and Gregory out. They all pulled on the robes. "These
      all have the extra enchantments that House Malfoy gets for their
      robes, to prevent staining, ripping or shredding. Basically, if
      these robes show any sign of damage, you probably won't be in any
      condition to care."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Vincent and Gregory saw Draco's small shudder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And they'll adjust in size as we do, of course. Very important
      for wizards our age."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione opened the letter that had been left on her windowsill.
      The elegant writing, the red wax seal on the envelope, and the
      overall style marked the writer. Nobody else put much effort into
      their letters. Hermione looked around but didn't see Draco's owl on
      any of the nearby rooftops. She leaned out her window and whistled,
      and an answering hoot came. Hermione craned her head up and saw
      Tanaxu standing on the chimney. Owls apparently don't like sharing
      a room with a Phoenix. She pulled herself back into her bedroom and
      turned to Xare, "When did this letter arrive?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">CAW!"</em> Xare said, mixing the screech with the audio
      equivalent of a shrug. <em class="calibre7">Phoenixes were wonderful,</em> Hermione
      thought as she broke the seal, <em class="calibre7">but didn't have any sense of
      time</em>. Probably a side-effect of being immortal. <em class="calibre7">Will I be
      the same, after a few hundred or thousand years, if I live that
      long?</em> She looked inside the envelope. There was a card, and a
      small parchment poking out behind it. She pulled the card out and
      read it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">From Draco, son of Lucius, son also of Narcissa, scion and
      heir of the Noble and Most Ancient House of Malfoy:</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">To Hermione, daughter of Leo, daughter also of Roberta, Lady
      of the Noble House of Granger</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I would be honoured if you would join me for a viewing of
      The Tragedy of Light at the Globe Theater on the evening of
      Tuesday, December 29</em><em class="calibre7">th</em><em class="calibre7">.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Draco</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione read the card several times. She thrilled at the
      thought of being invited on a formal date (instead of having to
      trick a boy into it). On the third reading she noticed that Draco
      had omitted most of his title, shortening it so that it matched
      Hermione's title in length. He'd also dropped most of the
      flourishes he used in formal correspondence. She wasn't sure, but
      she thought that Draco had used the bare minimum for politeness,
      trying to keep the tone informal and pleasant instead of stuffily
      aristocratic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She put the card aside and read the parchment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Hermione,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Please excuse the form of the invitation. There is a
      production of <span>The Tragedy of Light</span> I had been hoping
      to attend, and I though you would like to join me. I've enjoyed
      Muggle Movie Night and thought you might enjoy seeing a wizard's
      play, although I'll warn you not many Griffyndors like it. Some
      mild chaperoning will be involved, but it should be discrete.
      Please let me know by owl at your earliest convenience.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Draco</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">PS I'm embarrassed to admit that it would be easiest to
      travel by Phoenix, but I can make other arrangements if you
      prefer.</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">December 27th</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco rounded the corner, jacket tightly wrapped about him
      against the winter cold. It was a touch under ten degrees, despite
      the sun shining brightly this afternoon, for once.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey guys," he said. There was a small crowd of teenagers,
      mostly fifteen and sixteen years old, smoking in the alley off
      Picadilly Circus. They wore jackets, some leather but some just
      plain old winter coats. Underneath, Draco knew they'd be wearing
      T-shirts for various bands, but it was too cold.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tom!" said a Roger, a husky guy with black hair in small
      ringlets whose stubble of several days didn't make him look nearly
      as rough as he imagined. He tossed his cigarette down on the ground
      and came over and grabbed Draco in a bear hug. "They let you out of
      St. Brutus after all!" he said, laughing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey Roger," Draco said, "I brought my cousin. Hope that's ok?"
      Draco motioned back to the corner, and Robert nodded at them all.
      The groups joviality dropped slightly, which Draco had expected.
      After all, they had several years and half a foot on him, but
      Jugson was even older. "This is Robert."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Robert nodded curtly and said "Hi," while Draco went around the
      group. "Roger, Samantha but everyone calls her Sam, Dave, Mike."
      They all nodded, but Sam, the short red-head, seemed taken with
      Robert, which caused some hidden scowls.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You a Felton, too, Robert?" Sam asked, blushing slightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jugson wasn't comfortable around Muggles, and his discomfort
      showed, but he'd agreed to play along with Draco and his brief time
      spent in Professor Asimov's class had shown him the 'Draco Malfoy'
      was a name that would stand out in a crowd. Still, he'd quickly
      grasped the implication …. Draco had invented his Muggle persona
      <em class="calibre7">before</em> taking Muggle Studies. This had been part of
      Draco's test: to see if Robert Jugson would actually treat Muggles
      as equal and bite his tongue. Robert was of age, having turned
      seventeen last month, if he wanted to stun and obliviate this lot
      of Muggles there was nothing Draco could do about it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm a Jugson. My mum and Tom's mum are sisters." Robert shook
      hands and tried bumming a cigarette from Mike, a wiry lad who
      actually looked dangerous and had a spiderweb tattoo creeping up
      his neck. Mike just looked at Robert's outstretched fingers and
      raised eyebrow, then sighed and shook out a cigarette.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You at St. Brutus' as well," asked Mike. Robert just laughed
      once and took a drag on the cigarette – a lighter had appeared in
      Sam's hands the instant he put it in his mouth."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm thinking of not going back," Robert said. He didn't cough,
      just held the smoke and then released it. Draco wondered if that
      were a spell or if Robert actually smoked. Most of the older
      wizards had at least tried it. There was some small talk and Draco
      shucked off his jacket.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The small talk died as the group of Muggle watched Draco's
      shirt. It was a plain white tee shirt, with an outline of an Aztec
      sun, but as the watched the fabric changed colours to sparkling
      yellow and a rainbow background. There were gasps.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How does it do that?" Roger asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What am I, some egghead?" answered Draco lightly, then
      chuckled. "It's some chemical, reacts to sunlight. One of my
      relatives, he gave me this at Christmas." Draco's shirt brightened
      in the sunlight, and Draco tried not act cold. It actually wasn't
      that bad, but the wind was picking up. The glamour was a relatively
      minor one, the type that would be applied to robes, but the novel
      approach was mixing it with a sunlight trigger. Draco had gotten
      the idea from Harry's sunlight-capturing potion. Grindelwald – a
      master of Transfiguration – had been intrigued by the idea of robes
      that changed color in sunlight and had helped work out the
      formula.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wow!" said Mike, looking more interested than dangerous.
      "Where'd he buy it at?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're pretty expensive," Draco said, "and I don't think you
      can buy them in London yet. Apparently the company mainly sells
      them on nice beach islands. My uncle knows a guy thinking of
      importing them. They'd be pretty pricey, maybe sixty pounds
      each."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I'd definitely buy one," said Sam, "or nick one at
      least."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yeah," said Roger. "Definitely cool."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco stood in front of his fireplace, warming up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You see?" he said to Jugson. "They'd be popular."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, but it's violating the magical secrecy act," Robert said,
      but Draco could tell from his tone it wasn't a serious objection,
      just stating a fact.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, we'll produce them in the Caribbean. They have the same
      laws, but are a bit more …. open to interpretation. Besides, these
      will sell much better in a beach climate. How often could you
      really wear sunlight powered shirts in this weather? But I don't
      think there's a serious risk. Those muggle's just think it's
      chemistry – which really is just another version of potions and
      Transfiguration – and for all we know Muggles may be able to do
      this. We'll do it magically at first, hire a few local wizards.
      Then we'll figure out a Muggle way later to increase production.
      We'll make these shirts and sell them for an obscene amount of
      money to tourists."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Muggle money, but yeah. So what do you need me for?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm going to stay in school, but I want to start this right
      away. You go out to the Caribbean handle day-to-day operations and
      also be the muggle expert in the company."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, me?" said Robert.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're going to have to hire a lot of Muggle bankers and lawyers
      to make sure that nobody catches on. I'll assist with that as best
      I can, I can do that while at school. And someone has to be the
      public face of the company. Between the two of you, you are most up
      to date on Muggles."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Two," said Robert blankly as the footsteps started coming down
      the stairs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. Our third partner. Robert Jugson, I'd like you to meet
      Gellert Grindelwald."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Author's Note</strong> – The quote from Lucius is a
      modification of the famous quote from Lawrence of Arabia (the
      movie).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Del Sol was publicly founded in 1994, according to the Muggle
      Wikipedia.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
