<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 29: The Date, Part 1, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s29" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 29: The Date, Pt 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stood on the doorstep of Malfoy Manor, checking herself
      in her mirror once she'd knocked on the door. Her hair hadn't
      gotten messed up, of course. Her hair never messed up. Draco
      answered. Hermione saw his surprise. As promised, Draco had taught
      her anti-glamour spells earlier in the year and she'd been using
      them for the last two months to dampen her aura of purity, but
      she'd removed them for her date. Her mum had spent hours fussing
      Hermione's hair into french braid, and she wore a red and gold
      evening gown. Her simple chain necklace reflected the setting sun
      and the flames hovering around Xare, who sat on her shoulder. She
      smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello, Draco." She'd gotten over her nervousness during her
      preparations. <em class="calibre7">He looks nervous, though</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good evening, Hermione. You look lovely," Draco stuttered,
      glancing down at his own robes while standing aside. "Please come
      in." Draco closed the door behind her. "I suddenly feel
      under-dressed." Hermione looked at Draco's robes: elegant, formal
      robes, black tinged with green. Draco looked pale, was he nervous?
      Well, that didn't bother Hermione, she'd felt nervous for the last
      few hours. It was normal, on dates.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When they entered the living room Draco spoke up, "Hermione, do
      you mind terribly if I changed? It will just take a few minutes."
      Hermione frowned, confused. Draco looked fine. Xare flew from her
      shoulder and took one lap around the living room before landing in
      the fireplace. She sat on the log, soaking up the fire and sighing
      contentedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did I do something wrong, Draco?" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, no! I thought you'd be going more … incognito, but that's
      stupid. You could hardly do that with a Phoenix..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She's called Xare," Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...with Xare. I don't know what I was thinking. Five
      minutes?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione smiled and Draco disappeared up the stairs. She walked
      over besides the fireplace and the dusty portraits gawked,
      introduced themselves, and complained about her dress. A recent
      picture, judging from the frame, studied her carefully, then said
      "So, you are the girl giving my grandson such fits."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione looked at the portrait. The man in it carried more
      weight, especially in the face, than Draco or Lucius did and his
      hair looked strawberry blond rather than platinum, but the family
      resemblance was unmistakeable. She started to say something, but
      the portrait harrumphed and turned his back. Hermione heard
      footsteps coming down the stairs. <em class="calibre7">That was fast</em>, but she
      looked up and saw a tall man descending the staircase. At first she
      thought it was Lucius Malfoy, before she remembered. The man could
      have passed as Draco's cousin or uncle, perhaps fifteen years
      older. As his face came into view he smiled without warmth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Abraxis, where are your manners?" he asked the portrait. "Miss
      Granger." The words were barely out of his mouth when Xare cut him
      of with a scream of rage and accusation, head poking out of the
      fireplace. Hermione recognized him at last.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Grindelwald," she said curtly. "I didn't realize you were
      friends with the Malfoys." Gellert Grindelwald strolled smoothly
      into the room and sat down in the master chair, in front of the
      fire. He ignored Xare's hissing wail, then seemed to notice the
      Phoenix when it stopped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tell me, where is Fawkes? What has become of him, now that
      Albus is gone?" Grindelwald steepled his fingers in front of his
      face, contemplating the Phoenix hissing at him. He added softly,
      almost to himself. "It is still strange, to have outlived him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I watch him," Hermione said evenly, "He and Xare keep each
      other company, mostly." Grindelwald seemed satisfied by the answer,
      and nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is well. A Phoenix lacking his master pines and mourns.
      And they are picky about the company they keep. As you can see."
      Xare clucked disapprovingly. "If you have need, I can watch Fawkes
      for a time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione blinked. "Fawkes doesn't mind you?" She found it
      difficult to keep the edge out of her voice, but if Gellert heard
      any danger in her he ignored it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fawkes has known me for decades, of course. You have your
      opinion of me, which your Phoenix shares. Fawkes shares
      <em class="calibre7">Albus's</em> opinion of me. I think that of the two, Fawkes
      resents me more." He paused, "But it is a mild grudge, only. I
      would enjoy his company, it has been almost three seasons."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione considered this, rage growing. Gellert Grindelwald
      caused untold suffering, misery and death, yet apparently he
      expected Dumbledore's Phoenix to accept his presence calmly. Harry
      had told her that Dumbledore visited Grindelwald in prison. He
      probably traveled by Phoenix. Dumbledore hadn't abandonend his
      friend after their fight, they'd kept a relationship. Hermione
      couldn't imagine it. She could see Dumbledore being cold and
      cordial, he'd always been friendly enough to students but the man
      sitting before him had been Dumbledore's peer and apparently the
      former Headmaster had been unable to let that relationship go, even
      after his eye's had opened to the evil. He'd captured Grindelwald,
      defeated him, and imprisoned him. But never abandoned him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">How could this be, from the most famous Gryffindor of the
      age?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">During the height of his power the man in front of her ordered
      the murder of innocent millions to power his dark rituals. The
      Muggle world blamed Hitler, but he'd been <em class="calibre7">Imperiused</em>. Now
      Hermione stood watching him soak up a nice fire in a comfortable
      living room. His magical power had been drained and she knew
      Unbreakable Vows kept Grindelwald from doing anything harm. But ...
      he sat free and Hermione resolved that she would not feel sorry for
      this man, not forgive him and not ignore his crimes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Like Fawkes did.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione said nothing, but her face slowly grew redder and the
      fireplace grew slightly brighter. She didn't know if her anger made
      Xare burn hotter, if the link between them drove her Phoenixes
      anger or if her Phoenix simply recognized evil when she saw it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Grindelwald, noticing the fire burning higher, said "You have a
      kind soul, so it angers you, yes? That your friend released me?"
      Hermione heard Draco rushing down the stairs and Grindelwald -
      still staring at the fire and the Phoenix - said "Enjoy your
      evening, Miss Granger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She saw Draco's finely polished shoes, black leather gleaming in
      the crackling light. Draco's robes were still the same colour,
      black tinged with green, but the fabric had a mildly metallic tint
      the caught the light and reflected a silvery glow. His neck clasp
      showed not a snake, but a silvery flower Hermione couldn't quite
      place. Even his hat seemed taller.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The effect <em class="calibre7">was</em> impressive, she thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco proffered a delicate purple flower to Hermione. He quickly
      took out his wand and cast <em class="calibre7">Collorchidea</em> and magically
      pinned the flower to her dress, just below her right shoulder.
      Grindelwald glanced over at the young pair of them and chuckled
      once before falling back into his reverie.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shall we?" asked Draco, grabbing his cane leaning against the
      chair that held one of the greatest monsters the world had
      known.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The Globe Theater (the real one, not the Muggle reconstruction
      in London) had been old in Shakespeare's youth. Even then the Globe
      had toured the country for centuries, magically appearing on the
      outskirts of the next town preceded by a small advance squad of
      Wizards hawking tickets for "One night only!" shows. Families would
      gather in an abandoned field to watch the entire structure Apparate
      and settle into the ground, usually only an inch or two but up to a
      foot if there had been recent rain. As the Wizarding world was
      small, the Globe was an intimate venue, able to only hold five
      hundred patrons. Still, for all but the largest cities it rarely
      sold out. But <em class="calibre7">The Tragedy of Light</em> was a big seller,
      revived every Christmas season for a full week in London, and a few
      days on the continent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Since the theater had sat still on the outskirts of town and not
      recently moved, there was only a small crowd of wizards gathered on
      the cobblestones outside the theater. The cobblestones traveled
      with the structure. They were a recent addition - not quite a
      century old - by a former manager who thought modern wizards would
      fork over extra knuts for 'authenticity' in the theater-going
      experience. Setting up the stones on nearby roads had turned a tidy
      profit and also kept out stray Muggles. The few couples standing
      outside the round, white theater were enjoying the mild snowfall,
      magic protecting them from the real cold, when suddenly a glow
      brightened like a murderous dawn and a young woman's voice could be
      heard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...believe he'd be at your house!" she finished. The red colour
      disappeared, leaving only a young couple, a Phoenix riding the
      shoulder of a girl who looked younger than the voice they'd just
      heard. Most of the assembled wizards and witches stared at the
      now-famous Hermione Granger, she who defeated Voldemort, before
      coughing and returning to their conversations while sneaking
      glances at the young couple in their peripheral vision. Several men
      chuckled at the boy: <em class="calibre7">who would date such a dangerous girl?</em>
      Hermione gave them all a glance, then ignored them. This still
      bothered her, all the attention she got in public. At least nobody
      had come up to her, thanked her, asked for her autograph, or
      otherwise pestered her. One girl, probably eight, with a small
      ponytail sticking out from underneath her hat, said her name and
      started forward, but her parents caught her shoulder and told her
      not to be rude, that The-Girl-Who-Revived didn't want to be
      bothered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She didn't, but Hermione wouldn't have minded being bothered by
      a star-struck girl.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wow," said Draco, stumbling. Hermione removed her arm from his
      shoulder. Draco ran his hands up and down his sides. "That was …
      odd. Do you get used to the sensation?" Draco ignored the stares of
      those around them, had spoken in a normal conversational tone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well?" Hermione asked, still whispering like they were in a
      library. She felt guilty, questioning Draco on their date. Then she
      realized that Draco should be feeling guilty, not her. He was the
      one harboring a murderer. <em class="calibre7">That Harry freed</em>. By the time
      Draco answered she felt conflicted again. This was not how she'd
      envisioned the night going at all. She'd expected it to be awkward,
      or maybe for Draco to be charming, or even too glib to cover his
      nervousness. She hadn't expected a fight, especially one that Draco
      didn't seem interested in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where should he go?" Draco asked calmly. A young wizard in
      purple robes coughed quietly, and the crowd started to move away,
      across the cobblestones, towards the theater. "We are going to be
      late."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We'll discuss this later," Hermione said sweetly and caught an
      elderly witching nod and smile approvingly. Hermione's anger hadn't
      dissolved, but several voices in her head continued arguing about
      it. Draco didn't deserve <em class="calibre7">all</em> of her anger, and it wasn't
      like she had to save the world right this moment. It could wait
      until after her date, when she had time to think. <em class="calibre7">And argue
      with Harry</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Certainly," said Draco, as he extended an elbow. Hermione
      intertwined her arm with his as they went to the will-call
      window.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why this play, Draco?" she asked quietly after the usher had
      escorted them to their seats. She'd left Xare in the lobby. The
      manager provided a sturdy iron pole for her to rest on, assuring
      Hermione that "many a familiar had spent a pleasant evening here"
      and "yours would be the 8th different Phoenix to have been in our
      lounge," before asking if he could take a picture. He pointed to a
      wall that showed a number of wizards, standing besides the same
      pole illuminated by the dripping fire of a Phoenix. In the last
      picture a middle-aged Dumbledore looked at her over half-moon
      glasses and nodded approvingly, while Fawkes seemed to smile
      besides him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione could still hear the whispers, see the pointed fingers.
      They'd been seated after most of the audience, but even without
      Xare people had recognized her, those who spotted her pointing her
      out to those that hadn't. It didn't help that she and Draco were
      the youngest couple by a decade, not counting children attending
      with their parents, and her dress stood out among the muted
      Slytherin colours the crowd favored. Red and Gold were not in
      fashion. Draco had warned her, but she'd taken it as a challenge.
      Hermione could hardly complain about the attention. She felt giddy
      at having the power to provoke Wizarding's self-described nobility
      with her fashion choices. That was a power Hermione Granger never
      expected. She giggled slightly and added "I mean, I read the
      synopsis and it doesn't seem like a date play."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," said Draco, who sounded like he'd suppressed a cough
      then cleared his throat, "I like this play and haven't seen it in
      several years. And its nothing like a movie theater, where you have
      ten screens to choose from. This is the play they are showing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco - who had spent the entire last fifteen minutes ignoring
      every stare and cough from those around him - had been subtly
      inspecting the audience. Hermione would have felt annoyed but Draco
      had been a perfect gentleman, paying attention to her throughout
      the evening. And, after all, people watching was Draco's unique
      skill. Harry rarely noticed the number of people around, much less
      their characteristics. Harry only focused on people he considered
      important. <em class="calibre7">Draco probably did that, too. He just hid it much
      better.</em> And it was an interesting crowd, she admitted. Draco
      was still talking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I enjoyed Muggle movie night. Harry said part of the reason
      was that they only showed the really popular movies, that there
      were lots of terrible ones, so I thought you might enjoy this. It
      sells out fairly consistently. So, even though I know it's not," he
      paused, looking for a phrase, "your favorite <em class="calibre7">genre</em>, I
      figured you might like the quality. If not the content."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione gasped as she caught a glimpse of a familiar face
      peeking over a railing from the box seat above them and off to the
      right. Gilderoy Lockhart glanced down at the audience, five o'clock
      shadow on his cheeks making him appear even more rakish and
      dangerous than normal. Hermione smiled at him and started to wave,
      then his face disappeared behind the railing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draco! Professor Lockhart is here. He's in a box seat, up
      there." She pointed just in time to see Professor Lockhart's face
      re-appear, but now he was saying something and pointing at
      Hermione, who looked over at the witch next sitting next to
      Gilderoy, smooth blond hair pouring out from underneath her stern
      hat surrounding an aging but still beautiful face, formal noble
      robes strikingly similar to Draco's. Hermione gasped and turned to
      Draco, who seemed to be doing his best to try to pull himself into
      his seat and hide in the growing darkness as the lights started to
      lower.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's mind froze for a second. Then she leaned over to
      Draco. "We're here to spy on <em class="calibre7">her</em> date?" she said as the
      curtain started rising.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I <em class="calibre7">did</em> say there'd be mild chaperoning duties," Draco
      mumbled defensively before the crowd started shush-ing them.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
