<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 30: The Date, Part 2, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s30" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 30: The Date, Pt 2</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione spent the entire first scene mentally reviewing the
      exact phrasing of Draco's letter, which she'd read well more than
      six times even before showing it to parents. Mum had squealed with
      delight at the invitation, while Dad just scowled. <em class="calibre7">What did she
      know?</em> Draco had originally dressed formally, but not flashy.
      He'd changed after seeing her dress. He'd brought them in at the
      last minute, to a place where he'd know - of course he'd know -
      that Xare would be watched and kept away. Draco had commented about
      traveling incognito.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd planned to spy on his mother all along. <em class="calibre7">Was this even a
      date</em>?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Out in the lobby, the manager stared at the Phoenix. Turning to
      the ushers, he said "Is it getting brighter? You see it,
      right?")</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By the second scene Hermione had calmed down. Draco clearly
      liked her, but maybe he was more nervous than he looked – <em class="calibre7">Draco
      almost never looked nervous</em> – and he'd clearly be hearing all
      about this when he got home from Narcissa. She glanced over and saw
      that Draco was entranced by the play. It clearly had an affect on
      him, he hadn't been lying about wanting to see it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And he hadn't really lied to her. He hadn't come out and said
      all of his motivations, but that didn't indicate what his primary
      motivation was. This could be a date, in Draco's mind, but also a
      date with some spying. That made it exotic. <em class="calibre7">Maybe too exotic
      for a first date</em> said the teenage-girl Hermione. <em class="calibre7">Or maybe
      he couldn't admit it was a date to himself, and needed an
      excuse,</em> said her inner librarian. The librarian reminded her
      of all the books that stated boys matured slower.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By the third scene, which revealed Lights's father as the Auror
      leading the investigation into the murders committed by his own
      son, Hermione had built up a convincing internal story where Draco
      had invited her as a romantic gesture, but had been too worried
      about rejection to couch it as a date. He hadn't dared hope that
      Hermione would accept it, hadn't felt worthy of Hermione. A year
      ago she never would have thought that, but she heard the
      whispers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When the curtain fell for intermission Hermione realized she was
      being silly. Once they were in the lobby, age appropriate drinks in
      hand, she just asked Draco "Is this a date, exactly?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes! Of course," he said, a little too forcefully, and Hermione
      realized Draco might not have been entranced by the play, but had
      probably spent a good portion of his time worried about his
      situation and having an internal argument about her. <em class="calibre7">After all,
      he already knew the plot on stage</em>. She liked that thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's just," he said, slowly, glancing around to make sure that
      nobody seemed too near, "a bit of a working date. No, that didn't
      come out right. I wasn't sure how much of a date you considered it,
      or if it was just … hanging out. I've spent time with Muggle
      teenagers, you know. Things are done differently. I thought you'd
      be treating it like they did. Casually."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And once you saw how I was dressed," she said and Draco nodded,
      taking a sip of his drink. Narcissa came out into the Lobby and
      Draco started to subtly move them into a crowd, not realizing that
      Xare's eyes glanced in Hermione's direction ever few seconds,
      providing anyone the ability to track them even if they were fully
      hidden. Still, Hermione went with him. "I don't see why you'd worry
      about your mother's dating life. I mean, I can see why it would
      upset you..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't expect her to be with <em class="calibre7">Lockhart</em>!" Draco said,
      somewhat crestfallen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Does that make it better, who she's with? It doesn't matter,
      it's her business, not yours," but Hermione's voice didn't sound
      scolding. Draco's offense – a boy judging who a girl dated –
      offended her. In theory. Since it was his mother ... well, if one
      of her parent's died Hermione knew she'd be overly protective of
      the other. She felt Draco deserved a pass. And she was intensely
      curious. "Who did you expect?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco glanced around again and whispered "Professor Slughorn"
      and at that moment Hermione forgave Draco's overly protective
      interest in his mother's dating life. She took Draco's hand firmly
      in hers, walked them out of the crowd to go and say her sweet and
      pleasant hello to Narcissa Malfoy and Gilderoy Lockhart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco was, of course, too polite to refuse. Even if he blanched
      slightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione beamed her most intense smile, "Good evening,
      Professor. Madam Malfoy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mother. Professor." Draco said formally.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gilderoy Lockhart may have spent the last few years in a jungle,
      but he'd spent prior decades living on his looks and his charm and
      he smiled radiantly, as though running into Draco and Hermione had
      been all he had hoped for this evening. "Generals," he said, "I
      must admit I'm surprised to see the two of you here, and looking
      wonderful."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Narcissa smiled sweetly, "Yes, everyone looks lovely, but I will
      not participate in this charade." Her smiled faded into a scowl.
      "But that is a lovely orchid, Hermione. Did Draco pick it out for
      you? Of course he did, where would you get that. And did he tell
      you what it symbolizes?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione knew that subcultures - especially wealthy aristocratic
      ones - assigned symbolic meanings for colours, flowers, flags,
      practically anything. Usually it was a game played by the upper
      class. Judging from Professor's Lockhart reaction, he didn't know
      what it meant either. But Draco clearly did.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It doesn't symbolize anything Hermione," Draco said quickly,
      "it's just all I could find on short notice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Narcissa leaned down to Hermione and looked into her eyes.
      Hermione held her breath and raised <em class="calibre7">Occlumency</em> barriers.
      She might not be able to keep Narcissa Malfoy out, but she'd
      <em class="calibre7">know</em>. Narcissa just smiled a crocodile's smile and said
      "I'm not surprised you don't know, even though it's an obvious
      symbol. Orchids are <em class="calibre7">difficult to breed</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Narcissa stalked away. A few seconds later Professor Lockhart
      shrugged helplessly and started to turn away. Before he took even a
      single step Hermione started giggling. By the time he'd caught up
      to Narcissa, Hermione was laughing loudly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione, once she controlled herself, offered Draco her arm.
      "Your mom really doesn't understand me, does she? I didn't grow up
      in a Jane Austen book."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The ice cream shop, unlike the theatre, had customers of all
      ages. Teenagers, some nicely dressed and others in the latest
      shabby fashions, chomped on cones and slurped milkshakes alongside
      families with small children and older couples. Xare sat on the
      windowsill, looking in sadly – a young girl cried and screamed
      after Xare melted her banana split's ice cream and Hermione had
      scurried back outside before returning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I knew the murderer was the protagonist – Muggle
      literature has anti-heroes, too - although I never understood the
      appeal," said Hermione, sipping her milkshake, "I just didn't
      expect the crowd to be cheering him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's just a play, Hermione, it's not like they were..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm teasing you," said Hermione. "I don't judge people based on
      escapism. It didn't surprise me that they cheered Lawliet, but that
      the cheered <em class="calibre7">at all</em> during the play. Muggles might cheer
      during movies but in a play with actors I hadn't expected it.
      Although I suppose if you consider it a melodrama and give the
      victim a mustache to twirl...and in any case, it was an interesting
      play."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, similar to a Sherlock Holmes story" Draco said, taking a
      bite of his chocolate sundae.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, wait, you've read that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco paused and held up his hand, silent for a moment, then
      tapped his forehead. "Brain freeze. A few. It has charm, and I'm
      told they turned it into plays and movies. In some ways it reminds
      me of Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The lack of manners," said Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The maniacal focus," Draco added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The fact that his companion is ever so much nicer," said
      Hermione, with a smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait, which one of us is Watson in your imagination?" he
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That depends on how we define Watson. If he's a competent
      soldier cleaning up after Holmes's social failings, that would be
      me. If he's comedic relief and serving as an audience surrogate,
      then I'm afraid the role falls to you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco said "It would be the height of folly and rudeness for me
      to disagree. You are clearly the noble Watson to Harry's Holmes."
      He raised his spoon in salute, then continued eating. "In all
      seriousness, the trait that gets me is Holmes ability to quickly
      winnow down possibilities. If I see a man with ink on his robe, a
      shabby hat, and a brand new pocketwatch, I merely think he's
      written a letter and bought a watch more recently than a hat. But
      Holmes manages to come up with some much more esoteric theory."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's just a fictional character, like Lawliet, or Auror L."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, but you've seen Harry do it. I've seen it. I make some
      minor statement and then he's deduced the most amazing things."
      Draco looked down sadly at his empty bowl, then set down his spoon.
      "The methods he taught us, they can correct mistakes and guide us,
      but I don't know if he can teach us to make these stunning
      insights. That may just be his innate genius."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry lent me a book about one of his scientific heroes that
      said something like, 'There are two types of genius. The first type
      you look at and say, if only I study harder, practice harder, and
      spend the long years required for mastery, then I could do that.
      And the second type, you don't even know where to begin.' Harry
      does seem like the second type."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I mean, I figured out how he did a lot of things from last
      year. And those things impressed me quite a bit, Neville's
      Rememberal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione put down her shake. "You <em class="calibre7">know</em> how Harry did
      that?" She had to hear this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The last piece of the puzzle was when you saved me from
      bullies. I know you weren't there when you caught me, and I
      realized … <em class="calibre7">invisibility cloak</em>. I'd already figured out his
      spinster wicket was a time turner. With the two of those you can do
      a lot. You aren't wearing yours tonight, I noticed. But it's almost
      midnight … I can't imagine your parents let you stay out this
      late."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione blushed. "I put it in my purse. It didn't go well with
      the dress. And coming back from the dead makes your parents
      recalibrate curfew hours. But yes, I'm going to be home before
      ten," she added, feeling a small frisson of delight in keeping her
      father in the dark.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's really good, Draco, I never figured it out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," he said, "you didn't grow up around magic. Anyway, those
      tricks are impressive, but not because of what he did. Because I
      wonder how he managed to get those devices so quickly. But I've
      seen him, in conversations with Father, quickly infer subtle little
      details like Holmes would do and smoke out plans. I know he's
      improvising and not cheating. Or if he is cheating, it's still
      impressive. Harry's …. flying on a broom while juggling, dodging
      bludgers, blindfolded. And making it look easy. I don't see how the
      techniques are going to get us to that level."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think they will," added Hermione, finishing her
      milkshake with a small slurp.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, but wouldn't it be nice?"</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
