<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 4: Strangers on a Train, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s4" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 4: Strangers on a Train</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Draco strolled onto Platform 9 and three-quarters while
      adjusting the robes he'd just put on over his charcoal suit with a
      quiet purple tie and silver cufflinks. Before crossing he'd
      attracted minimal attention. On a normal day he'd stand out, but
      the steady trickle of wizards and witches made Draco a safe
      eccentric. Just a rich brat, not some delusional redheaded homeless
      clan who wore blankets and pushed a shopping cart loaded with
      birds. Commuters glanced past Draco and stared at the freaks. They
      might remember him and look back, but they never could spot him. An
      accountant offered investment services, Draco nodded dismissively
      and walked past him. One middle-aged woman stage-whispered "Why
      can't Andrew dress that well?" Draco silently agreed with her after
      glancing at Andrew. Muggle style existed, he was proof. Draco had
      no idea why most choose to ignore it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco got some glances. Mother attracted no attention, a
      shocking accomplishment given her beauty. Draco had sold the
      elegant black dress, Narcissa's concession to Muggle fashion, by
      pointing out that wearing robes stood out and invited a
      conversation. Mother's dread of interaction defeated her rejection
      of her Muggle past. Draco feared she'd change back to robes once he
      departed, Muggle curiosity be damned. Then he'd see exactly how
      much leverage he had with Li.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Draco crossed the threshold to Platform Nine and Three
      Quarters memories of last year washed over him. It felt like ages
      ago. Last year he'd gawked nervously at the sights and experience,
      until Father coughed slightly, reminding Draco his place. Now he
      glanced around the station. Pansy Parkinson sat in one car of the
      train, staring down at the platform through a window. Gregory stood
      next to the news-stand, beside Vincent, carefully counting out
      Knuts to the vendor, candy in hand. Gregory waved to Draco and said
      something to Vincent. Draco shook his head and motioned towards the
      train.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd meet them later. He had to get out of the suit and adjust
      his robes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An oomph behind him and Draco's trunk bumped into his leg before
      backing away to a fight for position against the interloper. He saw
      Neville rubbing his shin and Draco realized he'd stopped right at
      the entrance. Thankfully nobody had bolted through full tilt, as
      nervous first years sometimes did.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My fault, Neville." Draco moved away, trunk padding quietly
      after him. Draco nodded to Augusta Longbottom as she appeared at
      the entrance. He realized - amused - that her purple flowing dress
      and wide brimmed hat sporting yellow roses looked equally
      outlandish on either side of the crossing, too improbable to be
      accidental.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Prefects from three Houses helped stow first years' trunks,
      older girls screamed greetings and ran into hugs. Shyer students
      boarded the Hogwarts Express quickly, loud students mingled on the
      platform gossiping. A large clock showed 10:45. A new girl, hair
      almost as blonde as Draco's but shoulder-length, examined the
      train's steam through outlandishly large orange glasses. With
      rainbow lenses. Judging from her expression she'd invented some
      secret of the universe, hidden in the cloud. Cho Chang's hands
      demonstrated maneuvers she'd seen at Puddlemere United's latest
      match to the rest of the Ravenclaw team. Lavender Brown and Hannah
      Abbott stood comparing modified uniforms and giggling. Draco took
      this all in a quick glance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dozens of students, but not Harry. No Hermione, either.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll go. I don't want to embarrass you, Draco." Draco turned
      around and hugged Narcissa tightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll have time to be embarrassed later, Mother," he said, eyes
      closed, and held the hug. Draco didn't want to see people watching.
      He might blush. He wasn't embarrassed, not yet, but if he thought
      about it that could change. He released Mother and stepped back.
      "I'll see you at Christmas," he said in a normal tone. Tears rolled
      down her cheeks and Draco wondered if he saw Mother, or if his own
      mask had been as effective.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ignoring several slack-jawed stares, Draco boarded the Hogwarts
      Express behind sixth year Gryffindors, following smoothly in their
      wake as they scattered younger students. He stopped in the lavatory
      to fix his attire, and then went to the car he'd seen Vincent
      board.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Vincent. Gregory" he said, standing at the entrance. "Hi. Can I
      come in? I'll leave. If you want."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Vincent let out his breath. "Come in. Greg and I talked about
      it. I mean, we're all in the same boat. Dad said you'd have
      secrets, even from us. He told me once most of the time that meant
      you were either protecting us, or afraid. Of losing us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory said "Maybe it was a mistake, trusting Lucius advice. My
      dad worried, time to time, especially when they decided to throw in
      with You-Know-Who. They understood the risks. Who could have seen
      that coming? They were close, our parents. Maybe we saw that more
      than you did Draco. We spent every Boxing Day together. But you
      weren't invited until last year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco closed the door behind him. "So … we're on again for
      Boxing Day?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Christmas with Family. Friends for Boxing Day. That's what we
      do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco couldn't express the profound relief he felt. He'd
      confessed almost everything in his letter. Revealing plots, even
      his <em class="calibre7">Patronus</em>, felt easy, even cleansing. More difficult
      was admitting rage at Father, at Father's mistakes, at the
      emptiness between him and Mother. It felt like opening a wound and
      handing out salt. Gregory and Vince had reasons to hate Lucius
      Malfoy and Draco. He'd feared giving out more, showing weakness
      about his inner conflicts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It seemed he still had friends, which meant Draco must complete
      his confession.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know it's been hard, even before Voldemort"- they didn't
      flinch - "killed our Fathers. I know you disapproved last year my
      helping Granger, or suspected some deep plan. But it was just like
      it appeared."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why?" asked Crabbe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why not? At first I was polite because Potter expected it.
      Useful. And where is it written we have to be jerks, even to
      Muggles? Random rudeness makes us all look terrible. I was … I'm
      still trying to save our House. And I realized, hating Muggles it's
      not just wrong, it's a sign of weakness, even if it's politically
      useful."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco sighed. "Yet another time Father was wrong. Even last
      summer at my house, I feared admitting the truth to you after it
      drove a wedge between me and mother. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Vincent frowned, and Draco saw them exchange glances as he sat
      down heavily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If she lived with Muggles for a decade and still hates them,
      doesn't that mean there's something to it," asked Gregory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mother hates them because her life was on hold. She blames
      them, that's easier than blaming Father. Or maybe herself. I spent
      a lot of the summer investigating. At first I was trying to find a
      reason to hate them. And there are reasons, but no different from
      why I'd hate anybody."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And this hatred is one reason Slytherin is dying. At some point
      I'm going to reveal this, to challenge the others' beliefs. If
      Father were around, I could convince him and it would just be a
      matter of time, but without him, I might become a pariah."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Vincent and Gregory waited, and Draco made his final
      confession.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I could lose. Even winning will cost me friends and support..
      'The boy who tried to have it both ways, who hated Muggles when
      Voldemort lived and championed them after he fell.' I don't want to
      drag you down with me. Our arrangement was made by our
      Fathers."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And they're gone," said Gregory, "but you know we had a
      choice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why would I want out now?" said Vince. "Voldemort murdered our
      families and everyone thinks <em class="calibre7">we're</em> the bad guys?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Our fathers bowed to him," said Gregory sharply. "Of course
      they think we're the bad guys."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Voldemort championed hatred. Obviously we'd reconsider once he
      killed everyone. A backlash, starting by victims. In any case I
      didn't care one way or another. I'm not sure father did. Even if he
      did really hate them, that wasn't us. We didn't join as Death
      Eaters," said Vince.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We might have," said Draco softly. "If he hadn't killed
      everyone. If he'd returned quietly and kept hidden. It would have
      been tough not to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, maybe." Vincent bit his lower lip. "Voldemort made it
      easy to hate him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know," said Gregory. "I hate him,too, but I don't know
      if this will work. Maybe. As long as you don't reveal you were
      pro-Muggle last year"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't decide now. We can keep being friends without being
      allies."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Vincent gazed at the ceiling as the train's piercing whistle
      hurried stragglers on board . "Our year is fine, mostly. Nott and
      Potter are close, the witches are neutralish, but listen to
      Hermione, Zabini doesn't like you..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory said "That's envy. He feels overshadowed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He can join the club" said Draco, more bitterly than intended.
      "Potter and Granger in the same year? In any case he can be General
      this year, that will cool him off." Draco saw their look. "Potter
      and Granger resigned. So there's no upside for me as General. If I
      beat up on rookies everyone shrugs, because I've had a year's
      experience. And if I don't. Well. Anyway Greengrass is in,
      too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory interrupted "How are they deciding replacements?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Depends. Some classes are keeping the same generals. It's still
      up in the air for our year, but Longbottom gets it if he wants. The
      class gets some say but the Professors do, too. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professors?" they both said. Gregory continued without pause
      "So, it's a committee thing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," said Draco with a smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory ignored the bait, tacked back to the earlier
      conversation. "I worry about the older students. Thoughts?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco leaned forward conspiratorially. "I can't tell about the
      Jugsons. The Carrows lost both parents and hated me to begin with.
      They'll view this as a personal insult."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They weren't stable anyway." said Vince. "Most upperclassmen
      want to bully someone. They'd prefer to pick on Gryffindorks but
      don't care much" The train lurched once and the platform appeared
      to be rolling back. Draco saw Harry Potter hurriedly walk by and
      wondered if he'd just boarded, but snapped his attention back to
      Vince who was saying "Yeah, we'll be targets."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory shrugged. "We can take them."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
