<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 5: Strangers on a Train, Part 2, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s5" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 5: Strangers on a Train, Pt 2</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Draco looked out the window as the train lurched out of the
      station, still listening to Gregory and Vincent. Once the
      conversation turned to tactics, he'd finally finally relaxed. He'd
      confessed everything and they saw the tension flow out of him.
      They'd lived with him for a year, knew when he wore a mask.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Platform Nine and Three Quarters disappeared from view as the
      train rolled noisily past a wall. Draco lost sight of the wizarding
      oasis in rigidly ordered Muggle London. Potter called his army
      'ChaosLegion,' but in many ways Potter strode both worlds. Muggle
      society abhorred chaos. Staring out the window, Draco saw
      rectangular skyscrapers that stood gleaming, looming over older,
      elegant stone structures. Modern buildings dominated the horizon
      like disapproving adult children towering over their parents'
      shrunken frames, rolling their eyes while listening but not hearing
      stories of "the good old days."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ignoring the stories made sense. The good old days were
      mythical. Some Londoner Muggle transported back a mere century
      would be shocked at the squalor, filth, and disease. Wizards lived
      in luxurious style even before Hogwarts. Draco could match Merlin's
      lifestyle, argue who lived better; only a Muggle blinded by
      Romantic lies would choose to live in the distant past.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The skyscrapers silently testified the truth. Muggles had
      arrived but recently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the train ch-ch-clunked through London, Draco envisioned the
      two parallel steel rails underneath it. Perfectly aligned, slightly
      rusted but no less useful. Well ordered, guiding him at this
      moment. He hadn't noticed it last year. He'd blindly mocked Muggles
      with fellow students, laughed at their pathetic ignorance while
      riding their invention. Wizards stole ideas from Muggles, and not
      even their best.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco had researched trains after Harry's visit. Most Muggles
      flew, these days. Why waste a full day traveling to Hogwarts when
      you can arrive in an hour? Trains? Muggle relics. Even the Hogwarts
      Express, now plodding through the suburbs, belonged in a museum
      when compared to bullet trains.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the modern world trains carried coal, cattle, and Wizard
      children.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco stared at the skyline. All this knowledge could have been
      his, last year. He'd dismissed it with the phrase "Dumb Muggles."
      Didn't even dismiss it, because that implied he'd considered it.
      Draco remembered other phrases he'd used: Gryffindorks, Ravenclods.
      NothingPuffs. (Centuries of trial had not yet cracked the insult
      code for the 'Puffs, but it had been a lazy effort. All other
      Houses quietly looked down on Helga's brood so consistently that
      they'd never felt threatened enough to try hard). The Carrion
      sisters. Draco saw how amusing quips blinded him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd never truly lost sight of his lessons. He might generalize
      Houses and stereotype people but he knew that groups contained
      subtleties: their own intrigues and factions. His training pointed
      out time and again that everyone viewed themselves the hero of the
      story. From true kings to the lowliest pawns, to those who never
      stood atop the board. So even though Draco didn't know or care
      about most people, he'd tried to remember that they existed. His
      contempt had dulled that lesson.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Potter and his Father thought nothing odd about discussing how
      Muggles could help Wizards, that <em class="calibre7">Wizards deserved better</em>
      than their unfortunate lot. His adventures in London demonstrated
      dozens of ways wizards could benefit. He'd seen innumerable ways to
      help individual Muggles; but nothing on a scale. Even ignoring the
      Statute of Secrecy, even if Draco studied healing and medicine and
      became Saint Malfoy The Praised to convert Muggle heathens and save
      their bodies and souls, it wouldn't matter much. He'd be just as
      useless giving his money to the beggars. They'd overwhelm him,
      Muggles in London.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Perhaps they'd come by train, nearly two centuries ago, when
      trains were new to the world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Vincent and Gregory had been considering the news of Potter and
      Granger's retirement. They'd grasped the implications accurately
      and thoroughly, in Draco's opinion. Except for one point, something
      they couldn't know.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One thing, though. Potter loved being General. He loved it,"
      Draco said, still staring out the window as the suburbs had fallen
      away to a not-quite-picturebook countryside. He turned back,
      rejoining the discussion. "It reminded him of a Muggle story he
      adores, children generals fighting mock wars. In many ways, our
      armies were his childhood … a chance to play and bond with children
      he could consider equals, or close enough. He finally pushed
      himself and wasn't be treated like a child. He said he envied the
      respect we Wizards had, from our parents. And he discovered
      camaraderie, something like … us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Vincent and Gregory considered this new information. They'd been
      around Potter, but Harry rarely dealt with them, preferring to deal
      directly with Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Vincent started first. "If that's true he'd still run an army.
      He could give away more troops or even fight against the older
      years. He's not that good, Potter couldn't personally defeat the
      seventh year armies. There's a balance somewhere."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory chimed in. "They wouldn't mind, as long as he put up a
      good fight. They'd complain, but just grumbling, nothing serious.
      Be great to watch, too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco nodded. "Potter's giving it up because he believes he
      must. Not just to be fair. He has another reason, a compelling
      reason." Draco glanced out the window again, the landscape finally
      looking bucolic. "And I have no idea what it is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco pulled down the window shade, conspiratorially. "But we're
      neglecting half of the equation. Two thirds, actually. What do the
      two of you want? What are your goals? We'd talked about going out
      for Quidditch, and you should both do that, obviously."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory, clearly shocked, said "You aren't trying out?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not sure. I think my … " he lowered his voice as a group of
      Hufflepuffs walked by the carriage, giggling at something Hannah
      Abbot said while she pointed at Gregory, "... slate will be full.
      We'll see. Besides, I'm a classic seeker build and there's no call
      for that anymore. What about you, Gregory? Apart from Quidditch. I
      mean, you're the best flyer we've got."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory mulled it over, eyes closed. "I don't know. Doesn't it
      seem, you know, premature? Do I have to declare goals right now?
      We'll be doing all we can to get by. It's not that I'm complacent,
      but our position isn't stable. For now, we're reacting more than
      plotting. Chaser for me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm more of a Beater," Vincent said, then stuck his head into
      the hallway to gawk as a passing toad flew by. They laughed when
      Neville shouted "Found him!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco continued. "Yes, we're reacting. But we've got a lot to
      consider. It may take a month or two. I spent the last few days
      doing little else, and I'm still not sure."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Vince nodded, then sprawled out across two seats. "Thanks. I
      appreciate it. When I was younger, I asked Dad why we do it, and he
      told me that I'd understand the rewards. I never really believed
      him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco stood up. "Father told me something similar. But if you'll
      excuse me, I need to consult Potter and Granger." He opened the
      door to the hallway and paused as a gaggle of first years rushed
      by.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"About what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Our lecture for first year Defence." Grinning, Draco slid the
      door shut behind hm and headed for the front of the train. The
      blond girl with orange glasses lectured a Weasley girl (judging by
      her hair) about something called a Crumple-Horned Snorkack. He
      dodged past the food cart, stomach rumbling slightly although it
      was too early to eat, and sauntered past four older Slytherins,
      nodding coldly. Two ignored him, but Randy Rookwood nodded back
      only to glared at by Ethan Jugson. Draco went car after car until
      he found Harry sitting with Neville and Hermione. Hermione waved
      him in cheerfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello," Draco said. "I had some questions for the Generals..."
      Neville started to leave. "I didn't mean it like that Longbottom,
      and anyway, " Harry's lips twitched and Hermione shook her head NO,
      hair twisting into a tight spiral and then unwinding slightly after
      her head. Draco coughed to cover his reaction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">It wouldn't do to get infatuated with Hermione
      Granger.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks," Draco said, and stood aside as Neville walked past.
      "You didn't tell him? Great, now I'm the prat." Draco arranged
      himself in the seat opposite the other two. "Harry, I'm sorry I
      ignored you all summer. It's just hard. And … and Mother wanted to
      apologize in person but you weren't out there ..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You told your Mother that Harry was an <em class="calibre7">Occlumens</em>?'
      asked Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, you did Hermione," said Draco. "as did <em class="calibre7">every single
      adult</em> in the room." He let that sink in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Seriously Harry, you are the worst actor ever. Your parents
      reacted like you'd turned into a four-headed hydra declaiming in
      iambic pentameter. Even Hermione's parents looked stunned, and I
      imagine they barely know you. What did you do to them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione started laughing. Harry just shook his head as she
      pointed at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've read the books," said Hermione, smiling sweetly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shut up" Harry sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Occlumency</em> is basically acting," tone serious, but
      quizzical.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shut.. Up. Shut. Up. Shut. Up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So. how can you be any good if..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shuttity- Up" he said, voice rising.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione dissolved into quiet giggles. Draco wondered if they'd
      started dating.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I agree with you both. <em class="calibre7">Professor Binns</em> would have
      noticed. Of course Mother spotted it right away. If you had been
      alone, Potter, you might have gotten away with it. In any case, she
      said she just looking for stuff about me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"With no respect for my privacy," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You aren't family." Draco shrugged. "I had expressed … mixed
      feelings about you. And your history. Where Father would simply
      threaten you ..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"... Narcissa rummages around in my mind" Harry finished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Basically. Anyway, she thought you would make a decent friend
      and apologized to me for mucking it up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">After I'd confirmed the truth of what she saw</em>. Harry
      Potter hadn't lied, not even during an invasion of his privacy.
      But, Draco realized that Harry looked good in all the exposed
      memories. He'd plotted with Draco, allied with him, been tortured
      by him. And several memories showing Lucius dealing with Harry,
      possibly afraid of him. He'd left out the <em class="calibre7">truths from a
      particular point of view.</em> It made Draco wonder exactly how bad
      an actor Harry actually was. He'd ask, but he could imagine Harry's
      answer, <em class="calibre7">"I can neither confirm nor deny that I threatened your
      mother by acting like a normal 12 year old."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did she read my thoughts?" asked Hermione, more ominous than
      Draco ever remembered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She says she didn't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And why not?" Hermione's threat level jumped from hippogriff to
      troll.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry'd already been revealed as an <em class="calibre7">Occlumens.</em> She
      probably didn't dare risk it. <em class="calibre7">He</em> doesn't go attacking
      Azkaban. Or maybe some female courtesy. I'm not sure how Mother
      thinks, really."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe she doesn't consider me your friend?" Hermione
      continued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you? You weren't last year," Draco said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd be delighted, Draco!" she said. The room seemed to brighten
      slightly and Draco thought <em class="calibre7">get control of yourself</em>.
      <em class="calibre7">Don't fall for Granger!</em> Hermione smiled sweetly. "But tell
      your mother that I will absolutely destroy her - in a nice way
      befitting of Sunshine Regiment of course - if she ever tries that
      with me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course." Draco decided to go get lunch. "By the way ...
      about Slytherin. Harry, if there's anything you think I should
      know..." Just then something chimed from Harry's belt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excuse me. <em class="calibre7">Muffliato.</em>" Harry put down his wand and
      spoke into a mirror, like they'd all had last spring. Draco only
      heard buzzing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, Draco, we aren't going to share many classes. Harry
      and I got tutored over the summer. Harry always did that before
      Hogwarts and I suspect you did too, but its surprisingly ….
      efficient."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you're in third year?" Draco asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er, I think you could be tutored and move ahead too. You know
      we're all ..." Hermione couldn't bring herself to say gifted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco thought about it as Harry put his mirror away and canceled
      his spell. "It would isolate me even more. I can't afford that now.
      Although I may request tutoring from Professor … Asimov?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione raised her eyebrows. "Muggle studies?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry interrupted. "That was Peverell Hospital. Another failed
      break in. No real problem."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco, who had started to get up yet again, fell back into his
      seat as the train lurched sharply. "And you are providing
      security." It wasn't a question, more a statement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm consulting" said Harry steadily. "You must admit I have a
      talent for those kind of things."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do." Draco paused. "Actually, it makes me feel better. That's
      why you got tutoring."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tell me, Draco. What would you do for security?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Apart from the fact that you faked the Chalice, I have no
      idea."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" said Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked smug. "Now who can't act?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione glared at both of them briefly. "What gave it
      away?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was just fishing," Draco mimed casting a line towards
      Hermione, "Actually a few things over the summer. The timing seemed
      too convenient. To suddenly find the Chalice right after all this
      other stuff. It reeks of you, Potter. Then the Chalice is better
      than legend? How often does that happen? I'd been confused while
      reading the stories in the Prophet and I noticed. And you
      <em class="calibre7">consulted</em> on security so naturally nothing can be
      easy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">During all of this Harry kept his gaze steady, some unreadable
      emotion playing across his face, and Hermione nodded sadly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Most of the security is by Mad-Eye Moody, really. I don't
      suppose you've heard of Security by Obscurity, Draco?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, you can have security by not telling people how things
      work. That's OK. It can be pretty good. But if you can show someone
      exactly how things are protected and that person can't break into
      it, then you've got real security. To break into Slytherin's
      Dungeons - oh don't look at me like that Ravenclaw is worse - you
      just need to know a password. A small bribe, a bit of spying does
      it. But if I laid out the exact floor plan of Gringotts you'd still
      have a hard time getting in."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you tell your security to everyone?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Some Muggles do, but <em class="calibre7">they</em> use amazingly complicated
      Arithmancy and do it to <em class="calibre7">prove</em> their security is
      unbreakable. For them, if you don't describe your security everyone
      thinks something is wrong with it. But I do share the security with
      a select group, and they try to break it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco listened to this lecture with fingers steepled together,
      right hand drumming a slight pattern onto the left hand. He'd given
      Harry his full attention, of course, but he was thinking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mad Eye tells me his security, I try to break in. When I find a
      new way of sneaking in, he figures out a way to stop me. So do you
      want to try and break in?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco jumped slightly. That sounded fun, actually. "I doubt I
      could find something you've missed, especially with your head start
      all summer. But I could use a distraction. Are there real ways to
      break in?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing's perfect. We have to use the ... " he glanced at
      Hermione and made air quotes "Chalice to heal people, so it can't
      be locked away in a vault. Would-be thieves hopefully don't know
      all the precautions. We've had a lot of attempts over the last
      month; they've all been arrested. The next set of thieves should be
      smaller and smarter. They'll plan. Rumour is that German Dark
      Wizards have formed an alliance..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco forgot about lunch.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
