<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 8: Unknown Unknowns, Part 2, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s8" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 8: Unknown Unknowns, Pt 2</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">"So tell me, Malfoy, do you fancy Granger?" Ethan had asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The word <em class="calibre7">No s</em>tuck in Draco's throat. Draco heard boys
      sniggering. The girls made no sound and he didn't know which
      bothered him more. Harry Potter lounged against the back wall,
      expression no longer unreadable. <em class="calibre7">He's smirking, damn him</em>.
      Draco tried saying 'No' again, just to check.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ethan Jugson smiled, lips pressed together. "Take all the time
      you need. No rush." He dramatically interlocked his fingers and put
      them behind his head. Draco considered conceding and instantly
      discarded the idea. Conceding now meant failure, his preceding
      speech forgotten. Father had taught him <em class="calibre7">In any experience,
      people remember only the most dramatic moment and the final
      moment</em>. This was the most dramatic moment - Draco dare not
      make it the final one as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know. I may be infatuated," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco now faced another problem. Going on the offense meant
      admitting Ethan had struck a nerve. So, he'd keep lobbing easy
      quaffles at the center ring until the topic changed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What makes you ask?" said Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, Sara saw you talking to her and Potter on the train and
      said you seemed … distracted."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We were discussing... " Draco started casually, but Ethan cut
      him off even before Blaise snorted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't ask. Why do you think you may be infatuated? Seems an
      odd thing to not know." Ethan had the initiative and planned on
      keeping it. Draco had planned to lose, but that was before Ethan
      started winning. <em class="calibre7">That's what I get for considering this a
      solitaire exercise.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The last few times I've seen her she's had this glow around
      her. I'm worried I'm falling for her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I didn't have enough time or information to take Ethan into
      account.</em> Draco scanned the crowd for fellow children of Death
      Eaters. Ethan's eyes narrowed at Draco's answer, but he was in a
      duel, that could be anything. The Jugsons seemed calm. Earlier the
      Carrow sisters had hidden behind their tangled black hair, like
      Bellatrix Lestrange sported during her heyday, faces hidden from
      Draco's view. They'd whispered amongst themselves all during the
      duel, clearly on Zabini's side. But now they'd brushed their hair
      back, leering and making smooching noises in Draco's direction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Would you date her, Ethan. If she was older?" Draco kept his
      voice light. <em class="calibre7">Just another simple question, chatting with an old
      friend</em>. He projected the calm he felt slipping away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course not. She's a mudblood." <em class="calibre7">One question
      answered</em>, thought Draco. "That doesn't bother you,
      Malfoy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not as much as dating a girl who destroys Dementors," Draco
      shot back, waiting for the laughter to fade as an excuse to
      consider his question. He hadn't planned on winning but now saw
      several options. He didn't have time to compare. Plots were best
      pursued at leisure, planned carefully, but Draco didn't have time.
      <em class="calibre7">That's the point of dueling.</em> Draco chose a non-committal
      gambit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Since you disapprove, <em class="calibre7">instruct me</em>. What do you look
      for in a witch?" Draco smiled - that question was a minefield.
      Ethan might consider it not worth answering, just to win a duel.
      And if Ethan answered and pressed the point, well, he was younger.
      He could (truthfully) plead ignorance with no loss of face. Draco
      tried to remember who Ethan had dated, but couldn't. Draco
      suspected he'd never known. He paid attention to everyone but
      <em class="calibre7">Time is a Malfoy's most valuable commodity</em>. Older
      students' hadn't been a priority. He hoped the assembled witches
      would glance at Ethan's girlfriend (or crush); but their looks
      didn't form a pattern. Ethan hadn't answered yet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Conceding?" Draco asked. Elsie Ambrose stood looking down at
      the floor, hands clasped together tightly. She had a crush on
      Ethan, possibly; Draco filed that away. Pansy Parkinson stared
      directly at Draco, watching his eyes slowly scan the crowd.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Obviously looks are important, and a nice figure. And not
      bossy."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter had watched with growing interest as the duel
      unfolded before him. He didn't have Draco's experience, his
      tutelage in manner, tone and bearing. He'd been in many arguments
      but never formal debates. He'd never even imagined a Slytherin duel
      until a few minutes ago. But Harry didn't need any particular
      training to recognize that as a bad answer, at least as Slytherin
      witches judged. They hooted ample feedback.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry thought Draco seemed distracted. <em class="calibre7">No, not distracted.
      Attentive to many things. A wide-angle lens.</em> Harry couldn't
      see Ethan's face, wondered where his focus was. Harry's hands
      sweated. Very lightly. He'd never faced social anxiety, not the
      stereotypical nerd shyness. When 'In the moment' Harry didn't feel
      social pressure, possibly didn't recognize it. And threatening
      situations, social or otherwise, provoked his Dark Side which
      forcefully shoved fear and self-doubt aside.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But <em class="calibre7">watching</em> Draco play Slytherin Truth-or-Truth with a
      fifth year left him nervous.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, just like your mother?" asked Ethan. Harry started to say
      something. He hadn't caught all the rules but he'd gathered duels
      shouldn't dissolve into playing the dozens. "How does it feel, her
      coming back from the dead?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Family is off limits, Jugson." Harry heard the edge, the
      threat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not asking about her. I'm asking how you feel." Ethan
      pressed the point.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are fishing. Too vague. I don't have to answer." Draco
      hadn't been leaning forward, but leaned further back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You didn't complain when I asked how you felt about Granger"
      came the smooth reply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That brooked a single implication," Draco said flatly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before, words had drifted out slowly, and there were pauses.
      Some awkward, some artful, and not all of those had belonged to
      Draco. Over the last minute, though, lulls and empty spaces had
      fallen away. The legato fireside chat transformed – accelerando -
      into a brisk march. Harry wondered if that was traditional, part of
      the unwritten rules that so often formed a larger part of any game
      than the rulebook. Perhaps this was some strategy, but Harry
      couldn't tell whose. Now there were no pauses as words volleyed
      back and forth. Question and answer, call and response. Draco
      sounded the same to Harry, no change in timbre or pitch. Ethan
      sounded excited; he'd found a thread worth pulling. Harry leaned
      forward, for once part of a crowd.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're mad she's back, Malfoy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. You resent your brother's outburst after your father died,
      Jugson?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. Because she abandoned you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. Because he'd been invited to join, and you hadn't?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. Because Lucius should have figured it out and rescued
      her?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco stuttered slightly. "N...Not really. That's only a minor
      part. You wish Robert lay dead beside your Father, don't you
      Ethan?" The last came out quickly, raggedly. The exchange had only
      taken seconds and now time seemed like it should slow, like it
      should stop.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I withdraw the question, Jugson. I concede."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A second later Draco stood up as the chair pushed back from the
      table. Gregory preceded Lord Malfoy by several steps. To Harry
      Potter it seemed like they'd moved as a single unit, he couldn't
      tell if Draco pushed the chair back as he'd stood up, or Gregory
      had tugged the chair and Draco, responding to the motion, stood up.
      Gregory had never said a word, never threatened the integrity of
      the duel or interfered. But ... his hand had been clasped on the
      back of the chair, grip tightening at each of Ethan's last
      questions. Goyle and Malfoy were practically out of the common room
      by the time Ethan heard the words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Padma Patil turned to Harry Potter. "I'm beginning to think this
      was a mistake."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Footnote - Lucius's rule (<em class="calibre7">In any experience, people remember
      the most dramatic moment and the final moment)</em> is a
      restatement of the "Peak End Rule"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Author's Note - The next update will be Weds.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
