<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>HPMOR Crack: A Questionable Harry Potter - HPMOR Crack: A Questionable Harry Potter, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="HPMOR Crack: A Questionable Harry Potter"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Somewhere in the multiverse, Harry Potter came out differently
      than expected...</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wow, so magic is real, huh?" Harry said, folding his arms. "Is
      it okay if I try a few more experiments, Professor McGonagall? I
      just want to be absolutely sure. By the way, is there any reason
      why you chose a cat? I mean, I would go with an animal that could
      fly, at least. Though I suppose it would be handy to never have to
      worry about taking a bath again, since I can just lick myself.
      Heh." Harry grinned. "Who <em class="calibre8">wouldn't</em> want that power, know
      what I mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do apologize, Ma'am," sighed Harry's father. "We took away
      his TV and pulled him out of school, but he's still like this."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hi, I'm Ron," said the boy, sticking out his hand. "Want to be
      friends?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure. Do you like Star Wars?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry went on to explain the three movies, and told Ron exactly
      why Han Solo was the best character ever, before saying, "Except,
      I'm having trouble understanding why the Jedi don't use guns. I
      mean, the whole idea of light sabers is cool, just really
      stupid."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uhh…what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry patiently tried to explain it, and then got annoyed when
      Ron still didn't get it. "Okay, so I'm going to go...over there,"
      said Harry. "If and when you figure it out, you're permitted to
      join me."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, you seem like a smart kid," said Draco. "I'd like you to be
      my advisor, once we take over the world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But...I don't want to take over the world." said Harry. He'd
      thought it would be fun to get to know a mini version of Darth
      Vader, but the boy kept going on about himself and it was boring.
      Also, apparently his father knew absolutely everyone, and he had to
      list their names off one…by…one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you sure?" said Draco, frowning. "I'll reward you
      handsomely."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't care about that," said Harry, who already had several
      better plans for making money. "Besides, I'm not going to support
      tyranny, I have standards. Sorry, but I just think I should be
      honest."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fair enough," said Draco, shrugging. "So, what do you want to
      do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, earlier I was trying to figure out if it would be
      possible to get x-ray vision without giving myself cancer, but I
      think I'm going to need to do some more research first." Then Harry
      got distracted by the Quibbler, those articles were hilarious. "The
      list of experiments I've got planned is already pretty long,
      though, so the superpowers will have to wait."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's an experiment?" asked Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It helps you learn new things about the world, like things that
      aren't necessarily in books yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, well…that sounds like an awful lot of work that I would
      just make my minions do. Besides, I already know the important
      things, so why would I even bother?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I haven't even made it on the train yet, and I already hate
      wizards," sighed Harry.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you doing?" said a girl, arriving in his train
      car.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked up. <em class="calibre8">Oh crap, she's cute. Quick, say something
      not stupid.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm trying to figure out which jelly beans are the best by
      arranging them in order from absolutely disgusting to deliciously
      flavorful."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, wow, that sounds interesting," said Hermione. "Can I do it
      with you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry instantly fell in love.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The Sorting Hat was placed on his head, while he grinned
      expectantly. He had a ton of questions for the ancient magical
      item, but as soon as the hat touched his head, it said, "Not again!
      Just go to Ravenclaw!"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was eating breakfast when a Gryffindor boy came over to
      him. "Hello Harry. I was talking to Ron and he said you were a Star
      Wars fan. Well, I'm sorry to break this to you, but Star Trek is
      the superior franchise in pretty much every way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, <em class="calibre8">really</em>?" said Harry, setting down his fork.
      "What's your name?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dean Thomas."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, Dean." Harry snapped his fingers, and his note cards
      appeared in his hands, thanks to a nifty little patch he'd
      installed into his Moke Pouch 5000. "I hope you cleared your
      schedule for the next 5 hours, because school is now in
      session."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't realize until he got into Professor McGonagall's
      class that his new robe already had a hole in it. It fit his
      aesthetic, though, since his socks were basically more holes than
      cloth. He figured he'd fix it later if he found a spell while
      exploring the library. Magic was so cool.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He also didn't realize until he sat down that he was sitting
      <em class="calibre8">right behind Hermione.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He whispered her name, and she turned back and put a finger to
      her lips, pointing to the teacher.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After class, he approached her. "Hi there," he said, making
      finger guns. "How are you liking Hogwarts so far?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's amazing!" said Hermione, beaming. "There's so much to
      learn, and all my dorm mates have been so friendly. It's like
      Ravenclaw is the big extended family I never had."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Actually, we're not a family, just a group of people living
      together. I'm not your brother or anything, that would be weird, ha
      ha ha." His voice was too loud for some reason.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She smiled. "Yeah, I know. By the way, I have a question about
      the homework for Professor Sprout. Did you do it yet?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He scratched his head. The truth was, he hadn't even looked at
      the assignment, and he probably wouldn't until the night before it
      was due. It's not that he didn't care about his homework, but there
      were more important things at the moment, and he figured if it was
      meant for first years, he could probably knock it out in an
      hour.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's your question?" he asked. He grabbed the textbook out of
      his pouch, hoping he wouldn't look stupid.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, it says it's supposed to be a 10 inch long paper, but
      mine is 12 inches. Do you think Professor Sprout will mind?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was quiet for a moment, silently hating his brain even as
      it was snickering.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd say…the longer the better."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I was thinking that too!" she cried.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Oh, I'm so going to hell,</em> thought Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Or,</em> suggested his brain. <em class="calibre8">You could say
      we're...going down. Heh heh heh.</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"The problem with you," said Professor Quirrell. "Is that you
      have no ambition."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's that supposed to mean?" asked Harry, peeved. His teacher
      had been acting weird all morning. "First of all, I'm eleven, I
      don't need to have an ambition yet. And second of all, there's way
      too much stuff to figure out about magic for me to decide what my
      ambition should actually be yet. For example, why do the paintings
      move? And why do the Hogwarts stairs keep rearranging themselves?
      And why do you keep falling asleep during class? Or, for that
      matter, why do I get this pervasive sense of doom whenever you're
      around? I think this is something we should discuss, like,
      today."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In due time we will, boy," said Professor Quirrell, folding his
      arms. "So, when you figure these things out, what will you do with
      all this knowledge?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Umm…invent stuff and die a happy man? I don't know, I haven't
      gotten there yet. Magically enhanced computer programming sounds
      like a prime untapped area of research, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell's eyes narrowed. "I would have thought the
      idea would at least occur to you to use your knowledge to become
      immortal and take over the world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, not you too," said Harry, rolling his eyes. "The world is
      too messed up for anyone to save and/or govern. Besides, I'd have
      more fun finishing a puzzle than running a country."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Puzzles and riddles are a good way to sharpen your intellect,
      but you should consider the important things an intelligent mind
      can accomplish."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell launched into a story about how Salazar
      Slytherin revolutionized the wizarding community by taking
      leadership, but Harry stopped him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hold on, your story is wrong. Salazar's hat was gold, not
      green. I read about it in a book yesterday."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell was silent for a long moment. Then, through gritted
      teeth, "That is not even a <em class="calibre8">remotely</em> important detail."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. He knew he was being pedantic, he just didn't
      care. "It's still not right. I usually verify all my information
      for accuracy before telling anyone, it avoids embarrassing
      situations."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wish you had an off button," muttered Professor Quirrell.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was delighted to receive his time turner from McGonagall.
      It would come in quite useful. But when he discovered the
      invisibility cloak, his world turned upside down. He spent 15
      minutes thinking, and then went straight to Dumbledore, the most
      knowledgeable person he knew.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Headmaster, do you know who gave me this magic cloak of
      invisibility?" said Harry. "I have some questions for them about
      how to use it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you want to know?" asked Dumbledore, his eyes
      twinkling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, first of all, is it waterproof?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It keeps the rain off, just like an umbrella. It's great for
      adventuring, if you're so inclined to use it for that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ok, good. On an unrelated note, do you know a spell to keep
      glasses from fogging up?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore stared at Harry, then sighed. "And this is the hero.
      We're all doomed."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
