<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>On the Continuity of Consciousness - On the Continuity of Consciousness</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="On the Continuity of Consciousness"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre4">
<div class="calibre4" id="chapter-11"><!-- chapter management --> 
      <!--main content-->
      <p class="calibre7">This time, when she strode through the golden oval, a single
      thought and wish filled her mind.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">-~O~-</p>
      <p class="calibre7">"I want to be needed"</p>
      <p class="calibre7">-~O~-</p>
      <p class="calibre7">"To be honest, I wasn't sure if I should assign anyone to this.
      It's been my private project for years; something I could just
      tinker with on my downtime, when other work seemed too
      tedious."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna, still a bit disoriented, kept on walking. Though Harry wasn't
      particularly tall, his determined steps still ate large amounts of
      ground. It was hard to keep up with him, especially here, in the
      deeper recesses of the Tower, where corridors were tight and
      twisting, and steps broke up the ground at seemingly random
      intervals. These rooms paid the price for the geometric excesses of
      the more public rooms, whose shapes were designed for maximum
      effect, not compatibility with the triangular shape of the Tower's
      base. Only Harry was really familiar with them.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Are you still with me, Miss Lovegood? I honestly cannot tell
      whether you are listening to me."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Yes, I am."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Why was he so distant? He shouldn't be calling her Miss Lovegood,
      not after all they had been through together. Not after
      Dumbledore's Army and the battle at the Department of Mysteries,
      where they had stood together as friends. Not after the hunt for
      the Basilisk, when she had served as his agent in a school that had
      forgotten him. She shook her head as if trying to clear it. Those
      timelines were mutually incompatible, and didn't fit with this one
      either, where Harry had had better things to do in his second year
      than hunting a mythical monster. Now, she was a researcher at the
      Tower, and though she had attended the Hogwarts Science Program
      Harry taught parts of, he hadn't had much personal contact with
      her.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Harry was opening the fifth door in a row, this one round and set
      into the wall a foot off the floor. "Well, here we are."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna looked into a small, polyhedral room that was horrendously
      unorganized. Workbenches and tables stood where the irregular walls
      permitted it, all of them filled with muggle devices and wizardly
      knick-knacks, most of them partially disassembled and stacked a
      foot high. The floor was not better off; whoever worked here hadn't
      cared about having space enough to walk. Once Luna saw through the
      chaos, she noticed the burn marks: Flames and explosions had left
      black marks on the stone of the chamber. She breathed in deep and
      wasn't surprised at all when her nostrils tingled with the residue
      of wild, untamed magic. Images of her mother came to mind.<br class="calibre4"/>
      While she was studying the room, Harry studied her. "It's somewhat
      embarrassing to have to show this mess to someone. What do you
      think?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "It is messy."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Harry laughed. "No, I didn't mean to ask about the room. You might
      have noticed that I've neglected to tell you the nature of the
      project you'll be working on. So, what do you think you'll be doing
      here?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Is this a test, Harry?" Luna asked. Those who had graduated from
      the Science Program knew to expect the unexpected as far as tests
      were concerned.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Harry looked at her. She couldn't tell if he was taken aback by her
      familiar tone. "Oh, no, Miss Lovegood. This won't affect your
      employment at all, it's just to satisfy a private curiosity of
      mine."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna nodded. "I'll walk you through my deduction, then. This room,"
      she walked into its middle, making a sweeping gesture, "contains
      piles of muggle devices. Though I don't recognize all of them, the
      electronic parts seem as sophisticated as anything I've seen in the
      Science Program. There are also some magical objects here, though
      they are rather unsophisticated; an enchanted lamp, a pocket with
      an extended space in it, some others. All objects not in either of
      those categories are planar in shape, or form containers. Now, from
      the fact that complicated muggle devices are near magic, here, and
      the way those other objects could be interposed between them, it
      seems obvious that these are experiments into preventing the
      breakdown of muggle devices near magic."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Harry was smiling, now. "Excellent."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Oh, I wasn't finished. I've not taken the two most complex and
      mysterious objects in this room into account."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Which would be?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "You and me. You have been working on this for some time, or so the
      debris would suggest. Yet, you clearly haven't had a breakthrough
      by now. In hope for that breakthrough, you've hired me, and not a
      muggleborn, who would have understood the muggle devices in this
      room far better than I could. Also, I am aware of my poor grades in
      the Science Program."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Harry nodded. "Have you considered that I might just be short on
      staff and unwilling to commit those with better marks to a private
      project?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "I have, and it's a boring explanation. Boring explanations have
      never gotten anyone anywhere interesting. You've hired me because
      of my tendency to think sideways. In the Science Program, I failed
      a lot of times, but I never chose the path that seemed obvious to
      others."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Again, Harry nodded. "So this is your answer, then? I brought you
      in to generate new, non-obvious hypotheses for this project on
      which I have exhausted the conventional approaches of
      research."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "No." At this point, Luna was having fun. "That still wouldn't take
      all the hints in the room into account. My answer is a question:
      What do you think is the nature of spells?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Ah. Your deduction seems to be missing a few steps, there." But
      the stern tone was a bad cover for the wide grin that had split
      Harry's face.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Call it free association, if you wish." She had known since she
      had smelled the magic, but it had been fun to spin a large,
      roundabout tale of deduction. "Also, I couldn't fail to notice that
      your shielding materials have begun to gather some dust, though you
      have still been destroying muggle devices for a while. You've
      started to try magical shields, and that means you are asking
      yourself sophisticated questions about the side effects of spells.
      Before I can help you further on this path, I want to know what you
      think the nature of a spell is."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "A spell is a burst of magic shaped to effect a change in the
      world."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "You've sidestepped the question. What do you mean by magic?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "It's energy." Harry's tone was pensive.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "But everything is energy, in the end, isn't it? Try to be more
      precise. What assumptions went into your attempts to block the
      side-effects of spells using magical shields?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Ah, I see what you're getting at. It's waves."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Yes. You tried to abuse interference effects, but it was
      unpredictable, wasn't it? There was a random element in your
      results which no amount of careful calibration could eliminate.
      Your problem was that magic doesn't consist of waves, though it
      behaves similarly to them in some ways."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Harry chuckled. "Do you mean wave-particle duality?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna took a second until she remembered the term. It had been
      explained in the Science Program, but only once, and like three
      quarters of the class, she hadn't really understood it. "Ah, no.
      The important word was 'behaves'. Think of it as a living thing, or
      more appropriately, an infinitely large number of living things,
      like an ecosystem that's so finely grained it might as well be
      continuous." In fact, that was not quite how she thought about it,
      but it seemed closer to the type of thinking Harry employed.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Harry folded his arms and raised his eyebrows. She remembered that
      gesture from one of his more condescending incarnations; it meant
      that he was pretty sure she was talking bullshit, but considered
      himself too polite to actually say so. When he didn't interrupt,
      she continued.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "There's a lot of those tiny things that behave in somewhat
      unpredictable ways. Though they might obey natural laws, they have
      free will. At the macro level, their tiny disputes fall away,
      revealing clear patterns, like history seen from a distance. The
      effects of a spell are deterministic. The side-effects, though,
      might not be."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Harry nodded, though he still hadn't lowered his eyebrows. "That is
      an interesting hypothesis, but for you to be presenting it as a
      matter-of-fact theory, there are some more holes to fill. Also, I
      can't help but wonder why I've never heard anything about this
      particular view from any of the numerous experts I've
      consulted."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna smiled an inward smile, and this one was deviously sweet.
      "Let's say that I've got the inside scoop on this." This was the
      closest she had come to mentioning Friend to anybody, and she knew
      that she was treading a thin line. "And I'm sorry, but you're not
      paying me to spill the beans on the nature of magic, you're paying
      me to solve the problem of destruction of muggle devices by magical
      side effects."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "What does your perspective provide in the way of experimental
      approaches, then?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "We're dealing with a biological problem. There are two ways of
      warding off an infestation: The first is applying an appropriate
      poison, the second is introducing a sufficiently non-discriminating
      predator. I think we should just try to find something that eats
      the little guys."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Yes, I tried that. The only creatures that are reputed to just eat
      magic are chizpurfles, and I've eliminated them as a solution since
      they only live as parasites and could never reliably shield an
      entire device."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna nodded, looking thoughtful. "I don't think those are our only
      option, though. I'll have to think about this. Oh, by the way, I
      don't think I'll need this laboratory, or any room in the tower,
      really. I'll just get back to you when I've found something."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "That's rather unorthodox, isn't it?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Oh, it is, but isn't that why you've hired me? I expect I'll find
      something within the week."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna left quickly. Had she stayed longer, she might have seen
      Harry's contrary posture fall away, revealing a wide, satisfied
      smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">Within a day, she had thought of fourteen different candidates
      to test out, until she had remembered that she should constrain
      herself to beings that were already found, since they had to begin
      testing within a reasonable time frame, and there was no telling
      how long it would take her to find something like a Crumple-Horned
      Snorkack. Suddenly, there weren't any candidates left. The
      established field of magizoology was, as she knew, painfully
      narrow.<br class="calibre4"/>
      This left her with the interesting and unusual task of
      hypothesizing about creatures everyone else already thought they
      knew everything about.<br class="calibre4"/>
      She borrowed a copy of Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find them from
      the Hogwarts library, technically illegally, since she wasn't a
      student anymore. Some might have scoffed at her choice of
      reference, since calling it an introductory text would have been
      generous, but she didn't particularly care that it was short and
      written in a comparatively simple style. She had no use for
      long-winded paragraphs of description in flowery prose. In fact,
      she just needed a list she could tick off, so that she could be
      sure to have considered all options.<br class="calibre4"/>
      After three days of free association, she had her most promising
      candidate. She just had to look for creatures with improbably
      restrained eating habits, since those were the most likely ones to
      supplement their diet with magic. The Devil's Snare had stood out
      both for its likely capabilities of absorption and its ease of
      handling. At least, it had always seemed easy to handle to Luna;
      after all, it wouldn't be able to strangle anything which was
      bright enough.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Harry had been thrilled with her find, but somewhat reserved at her
      countermeasures, opting for a breeding program.<br class="calibre4"/>
      He had asked her to demonstrate the plant's powers of absorption.
      It felt weird, at first, to apply the experimental method to her
      own hypotheses, since she had done just fine with pure theorizing
      her entire life, but she recognized its use when she saw how
      quickly people were inclined to believe her.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Harry asked her to help him on another project right away. That
      project was followed by another, bigger one, and before she knew,
      she had subordinates, people who actually did what she told them
      to.<br class="calibre4"/>
      For the first time since her mother had died, she felt truly
      appreciated.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">-~O~-</p>
      <p class="calibre7">Luna was standing before the golden oval again. From the dream
      she had just lived, she had taken more than just memories. A deep
      sense of understanding filled her.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "It's a lie."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Question.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Friend was good with images; it could convey abstract concepts with
      its golden oval that Luna couldn't even imagine trapped in a
      picture, and when the picture was gone, she couldn't quite remember
      what it had been like. Sometimes, there was more meaning to be
      derived from the concept, like this time: It had asked a question,
      but it was up to Luna to find out which one. She assumed it had
      been a simple request for clarification.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "It's not real, this world I was/been/will be in." Her own speech
      was strange, sometimes, too, in this world between worlds. "This
      Luna has walked the path of the underdog. She has been ridiculed
      and underestimated, with bad marks slapped on her when no one
      understood just how clever she was. Then, she was given an
      opportunity to prove herself, and passed with flying colors. She
      has won the respect of that Harry, but that is not how it should
      have been.<br class="calibre4"/>
      It might have been like that for me, had I been in that situation,
      but the Luna that should have been there would have been different,
      and would have gotten praise and respect from the beginning of the
      Science Program. She wouldn't have needed to lessen Harry, and so
      he would have had the idea to investigate the Devil's Snare, and
      for a more robust reason than hers. This world is twisted, and this
      Luna is pitiful."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Three identical women in poses of agony and madness.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Yes, I know, there is only one of me, and talking as though I were
      many fosters misconceptions. Yet my point still stands. I shouldn't
      change that world to contain such different paths to satisfy my own
      hunger for respect won against adversity."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Peas in a pod, each slightly different.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Though it is a valid choice, it shouldn't be mine to make."<br class="calibre4"/>
      The peas were gleaming silver now.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "And we've been over that, as well. I still don't think I'm
      ready."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Golden chains, shattered on the floor.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "I... I don't understand." Sometimes, that happened, when Friend
      thought an unknown concept familiar to her.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Freedom.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Yes, that much I had gotten. But who? How?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      Friendship.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Friend was probably growing impatient now, since it didn't like
      explaining himself. There were two entities Friend could mean with
      the notion of Friendship; Luna, who was its friend, or itself,
      because it knew how she thought of it. Luna steadied her thoughts
      and found the most probable option: It meant them both. Every
      conversation with it had to be taken in all possible contexts, if
      possible, interpreted in all different ways and seen as the sum of
      those. That was just the way it thought, and the highest barrier to
      true communication with it.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Choices, accomplished through Willwork, a prison shattered. Freedom
      for Friend, or friendship through freedom, or even freedom from
      friendship, as twisted as that sounded. After all, a golden chain
      could represent many things.<br class="calibre4"/>
      No matter what, Friend wanted her to act now, instead of waiting
      until she felt ready. And it would be discourteous to refuse; it
      had caused many good things to happen to Luna, likely at a cost to
      itself. It was time for her to return the favor.<br class="calibre4"/>
      The last question left was the How. It was ephemeral, though,
      before this golden oval. With conviction, Luna opened the door
      through which she had gone earlier, and let time flow. She saw what
      became of the Devil's Snare, once the breeding program had tamed
      it. It was little more than a potted plant that ate magic, and in
      fact, a potted offshoot of it stood in the greenhouse where it had
      been bred. It was an easy thing to reach through and take it.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna would go back, now. She knew that the time the five pills had
      granted her was almost up. But she would take this little plant
      with her and free herself, so that she might free Friend.</p>
      <!--/main--></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
