<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>On the Continuity of Consciousness - On the Continuity of Consciousness</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="On the Continuity of Consciousness"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre4">
<div class="calibre4" id="chapter-12"><!-- chapter management --> 
      <!--main content-->
      <p class="calibre7">Mrs Norris had been found petrified some months ago, and Luna
      had been the only student in the castle who hadn't heard. Like a
      river parting around a stone, rumours passed by her, and though
      they tended to swirl and eddy in her presence, she didn't
      notice.<br class="calibre4"/>
      The attack on Colin Creevey had gone by, as had those on Justin
      Finch-Fletchley and Nearly Headless Nick. Though the school had
      been buzzing with fear and excitement since then, Luna didn't know
      anything. She didn't participate in conversations, and was just too
      absorbed in her own thoughts to notice things other people said or
      did.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Over Christmas, Hogwarts had been empty, the halls swept clean by
      fear. Luna had been planning to go home for the Christmas break
      from the start. After the first train ride to Hogwarts, she had
      resolved to seek out her crooked little compartment every time, and
      her peers avoided her, so she didn't even notice that the Hogwarts
      Express was unusually full.<br class="calibre4"/>
      After the Christmas break, everything was quiet for a while.
      Everyone was doing what they could to stay safe now, and caution
      seemed to pay off. There had been no new attacks.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna didn't notice. She didn't care about the behaviour of her
      classmates, be it the strange talismans everyone was wearing or the
      little mirrors some used to look around corners. Her classmates
      might as well have been of a different species; she didn't
      understand them, and had given up on trying to. There was no reason
      to attempt communication.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Besides, she was busy. Shortly after Christmas, after her talk with
      Ginny, after her second true encounter with Friend, she had woken
      up on a pillow stiff with dried blood. She had bled from nose and
      ears while dreaming of Friend, so much that she had felt slightly
      faint. In her right hand, she had held a tiny living thing, a
      tender, brightly green offshoot. She had done it; she had opened a
      way and dragged something through, something which shouldn't exist
      in this world.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Within hours, she had found the perfect place for her project: A
      tiny room deep in the dungeons. The unbroken layer of dust on the
      floor certified that not even the House Elves came here. The room
      contained no furniture and had no windows. It was perfect for her
      needs.<br class="calibre4"/>
      The rest was a matter of herbology, care and patience. Friend had
      shown her the way to a world in which she was a prodigy as far as
      plants were concerned, and though she had known that Luna had been
      a lie, just like the vision of research in the Tower had been, she
      had used her knowledge.<br class="calibre4"/>
      She spent hours upon hours in the dungeons, pruning and nourishing,
      cutting offshoots off the offshoot and seeding the room with them,
      floor, walls and ceiling. Her absence was noted - once, as she went
      back up to the castle, Dumbledore himself asked her to explain
      herself. She couldn't afford for her project to be interrupted, so
      she asked Friend to make everyone forget her, and it did. Suddenly,
      she was free of all obligations.<br class="calibre4"/>
      She devoted herself to her project. She didn't know what would
      happen at its end, barred herself from thinking about it, but the
      plant had to grow. Therefore, she went into the tiny room in the
      dungeon, content to spend all her time with the plant.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Though her skin had been fair before, she got even paler now, until
      the skin on the back of her hands became see-through. Her veins
      seemed green now, no longer blue. She slept dreamlessly several
      times a day, but never more than half an hour at the time, so her
      care for the plant wouldn't be interrupted for too long.<br class="calibre4"/>
      She didn't feel hunger anymore, though she was getting thinner and
      thinner. In some ways, she was happy about it; not needing food
      meant more time for the plant. This way, she only had to leave the
      room once every few days, to get more water for the plant.<br class="calibre4"/>
      While on such an errand, a group of Slytherins crossed her path.
      They were laughing and joking among themselves, but once they saw
      her, they stopped in their tracks. Pale and frightened, they turned
      around and ran. Luna got her water and brought it back to the
      plant, humming to herself. She knew why they had acted such. Luna
      had seemed like something truly strange, and their limited minds
      couldn't deal with the unknown.<br class="calibre4"/>
      It was as though they simply couldn't decide what she was; witch,
      ghost or something in-between, some cursed half-creature, and that
      fit Luna just right. She had always been different, she might as
      well look the part. With slight surprise she noted that she could
      really see through her skin, now, and count not only her veins, but
      also the vague shadows of the bones beneath.<br class="calibre4"/>
      She had forgotten her wand in her room, when she had last been
      there, months ago, and not missed it. Even if she had had it, she
      couldn't have cast any spell by now. She was as sapped of magic as
      any prisoner in Azkaban.<br class="calibre4"/>
      She didn't mind that the plant was eating her. It had grown so big
      that it covered the ground and walls entirely, now. Luna had put
      every last vine and leaf in exactly the right place, a grand design
      realized as a living thing. It had never so much as lifted a vine
      against her, and though she knew the exact steps of the breeding
      program Harry and her other self had conducted, she believed its
      nonviolence to be a sign of symbiosis with her.<br class="calibre4"/>
      To her, the confined room seemed infinite. Its size was not
      external, but within, a microcosm, sprawling scenery contained in
      the smallest details of the plant. She had explored so much of it,
      had charted so many details and mapped so many shades of green in
      the darkness, and yet there would always be more to find.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Above her head, the last blank spot of ceiling would close, soon.
      Only a few days and she would have created a space entirely free of
      magic, deep within Hogwarts. Then she could begin with the final,
      unknown phase of her plan.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">The last leaf grew in minutes, accelerated by a sudden burst of
      ancient magic reverberating through the castle walls. Luna didn't
      know about the outside, about Hermione, who was petrified, or
      Aragog, not even the plight of Ginny, who was, by now, even farther
      away from the world than Luna. She didn't know that the Chamber of
      Secrets had been opened and wouldn't have cared. Her singular
      purpose had been achieved: Her tiny room was closed.<br class="calibre4"/>
      She had never felt as she did, right now. It was a feeling of
      elation, of completeness-in-lack, of asceticism brought to the cusp
      of ascendancy. With twitching, shivering fingers she could barely
      control anymore, she dug around in a pocket of the rags she wore,
      finding her most well-hoarded treasure.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Ten pills were left of the hoard Friend had gathered for her from
      the Medicine Cabinet. She took them all. Just before she faded, she
      knew what she wanted and hoped for: Without the interference of any
      magical background radiation, with her body a whisper on the wind,
      she could step halfway through the door, stay in the real world and
      be with Friend in the world-between-worlds at the same time. She
      didn't want to be alone anymore.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Welcome, Luna."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Was it her state of delirium, that made her hear it speak in words
      for the first time? Maybe her dying brain put the pictures he
      always showed her into words. But maybe, just maybe, he was
      actually speaking to her.<br class="calibre4"/>
      And how intriguing his voice was! He took the ordinary words of
      English and formed them into worlds themselves, with jagged peaks
      higher than the highest clouds and deep, verdant valleys. There was
      life in his voice, ecosystems in a single world, a thousand species
      coming into being and vanishing just so he could make a single
      point.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna opened her eyes, and where the world-within-worlds had been a
      distant gray before, dull enough that she had never even noticed
      not noticing it, it shone from itself now, with subtle variation
      testifying to a long and varied history. She knew she saw Friend's
      soul reflected in his world, just like his metaphor of the mirrored
      sphere had always suggested. Her soul opened and sang with joy just
      as her heart struggled with its last feeble beats.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Finally, her eyes chanced upon him, and a black spear, jagged and
      terrible, drove into her open soul. She had seen him before; his
      iridescent claws, the inky pool of his blackness and the many
      things squirming within. Many things in the world-between-worlds
      had been lies, or only half-true, but this wasn't.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Suddenly, she felt so fragile, so cold and so small.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Why?" She knew she didn't need to be specific. He would answer all
      questions at once.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "To get to this point. Every time you came here, I took from you
      and your world. Every time I did your bidding, our pact deepened.
      As I was the key to your chains, you will be to mine."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Suddenly she saw, hidden inside his darkness, a golden chain wound
      tightly around his squirming self. It was worn out and weakened,
      but it still held. In the center, buried deep within his mass, was
      a lock.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna wasn't surprised when she saw that the index finger of her
      left hand was a key. It wasn't a recent development. In opening the
      medicine cabinet for the first time, she had made it such, though
      she hadn't known at the time. It began moving towards the lock of
      its own accord, which wasn't surprising, either.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Power for power, and a key for a key.<br class="calibre4"/>
      And understanding for understanding, if she had her way.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "My mother pulled you free. But why did I see you in my dreams
      before you came?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "My kind doesn't exist as simply as yours does. Echoes ripple
      across the world at our slightest movement. Have all of you
      forgotten whence your power comes, wizard child?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Wisdom is always fading. The magic all around us, even things of
      power... In another reality, I remember standing near a golden
      mirror, high above the earth, working my will. Yet I didn't notice
      that it felt as your touch did; the worlds rearranged as I
      wish."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Her finger was entering the lock.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "I had not known of that prison. You may ask of me one last reward,
      in fair exchange."<br class="calibre4"/>
      She smiled at Friend then, a bright outward smile. "That's not how
      friendship works." With a thought, her wand materialized in her
      right hand, pulled from one of the many worlds, and she cast as her
      mother once had; a spell in a spell, ad infinitum.</p>
      <!--/main--></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
