<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>On the Continuity of Consciousness - On the Continuity of Consciousness</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="On the Continuity of Consciousness"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre4">
<div class="calibre4" id="chapter-1"><!-- chapter management --> 
      <!--main content-->

      <p class="calibre7">Luna had arrived at the train to Hogwarts long before any other
      student. She had wandered through the train trying to find the
      perfect compartment, and she had finally found it. It was a small,
      crooked compartment unlike any other, since it shared a wagon with
      the small room in which the Sweets Lady kept her cart. As such,
      there were only three seats in the compartment instead of the usual
      six, and the small table was irregularly formed.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna had liked it immediately. After all, three was a far better
      number than six when it came to holding meaningful conversations,
      and the crooked, asymmetric arrangement seemed comfortable and
      inviting precisely because it deviated from the boring norm. She
      took a seat, closed her eyes, and began to daydream.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Daydreaming was an activity Luna had mastered. Within seconds she
      had completely forgotten her surroundings, instead recapitulating
      the properties of the Crumple-Horned Snorkack. It didn't take her
      long until she had a complete picture of the beast, its violet,
      scaly hide and yellow eyes with the peculiar w-shaped pupils. From
      there, she started to extrapolate. What would it eat with its thin,
      needle-like teeth? Where would it have to live, to get just the
      right amount of sun, which was essential to its metabolism?<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna had already spent quite some time on the subject, which was
      how she had acquired her knowledge of the Snorkack's appearance.
      Most people wouldn't have trusted long flights of fancy, but Luna
      wasn't like most people in any respect. When she had mulled over
      something for a long time, examined all possibilities and
      eliminated everything that seemed implausible, she already thought
      it quite likely. If she then saw it in a dream, it was as good as
      true to her.<br class="calibre4"/>
      When Luna opened her eyes again, hours had passed and the train was
      already moving. A girl was knocking at the wall, since the
      compartment didn't have a door, relieved that she had gotten Luna's
      attention.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Hey, is this seat free?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna nodded. The girl didn't seem to trust observations very much;
      wasn't it clear as day that no one else was in the compartment,
      that there were no trunks stowed away besides Luna's, and that it
      was unlikely Luna was still waiting for anyone, since the train was
      already moving and Luna hadn't even had her eyes open to look
      around for someone? Maybe she just liked making conversation.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "I'm Lea. You're a first-year like me, aren't you?", the girl
      asked. Luna smiled a little, as this had confirmed her hypothesis;
      the girl did like making conversation.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Yes, I'm Luna."<br class="calibre4"/>
      A few seconds of silence passed, which Luna used to study Lea. She
      had brown skin and frizzy brown hair, which she wore in pigtails.
      At this, Luna stopped. She could have obtained more details about
      Lea, her clothing for example, but that seemed like a waste of time
      when they would be wearing Hogwarts robes shortly, anyway. The
      other girl just seemed so ordinary and uninteresting compared to
      the things Luna saw in her daydreams, as did most people.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Lea tried to start the conversation up again. "So, what house are
      you hoping to get into?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna shrugged. "I don't really care."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "You don't care? But the Sorting decides what sort of person you'll
      become, and even who you're going to be friends with!"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "I don't think I'll let a hat decide who I'm going to be friends
      with. And I'm sure that the qualities of the houses aren't as set
      in stone as people believe they are."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "But you can't just not care! What if you end up in Slytherin?
      Everyone in the other houses would avoid you, so all your friends
      would be Slytherins, and that's the first step to becoming evil.
      You don't want to end up evil, do you?" Lea's voice had grown
      louder, which Luna honestly didn't understand.<br class="calibre4"/>
      She decided to pacify the other girl. "I am who I am, and no House
      would change that. Also, based on previous experiences, it doesn't
      matter at all where I end up, I won't have many friends,
      anyway."<br class="calibre4"/>
      This did have the effect Luna had been hoping for: Lea grew quiet.
      After a moment, she spoke again, though this time in a calmer
      voice. "I think you're going to end up in Ravenclaw. It's the way
      you talk, you know? And don't worry about making friends. There's
      someone for everyone, and once you find them, you'll be more
      happy.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Anyway, I'm hoping for Gryffindor myself."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna was a bit confused. Why had Lea assumed that she was worried
      and unhappy? Try as she might, Luna couldn't see a reason for
      anyone to assume that, and besides, it was wrong - Luna had been
      quite lonely for the last two years, and she didn't feel as though
      she was missing anything of importance. Though the company was a
      fine thing, she also appreciated having a bit of peace and quiet to
      think.<br class="calibre4"/>
      A few quiet minutes passed. Lea began to fidget, which was
      distracting, so Luna closed her eyes. She had just begun to pick up
      her train of thought about the Crumple-Horned Snorkack again when
      the Sweets Lady came around and readied her cart.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Good morning, little ladies. How about a chocolate frog?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "I'll take one", Lea said.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna just shook her head. It had always seemed wrong to her to
      enchant chocolate to resemble a live animal. Was it indicative of a
      deeply-held desire among wizards to eat living frogs, which they
      could only indulge in in this form, since it circumvented a taboo
      on actually capturing and killing real frogs? She wondered if the
      chocolate frogs would sell better if their insides were closer to a
      real frog's.<br class="calibre4"/>
      By the time she had gotten to that thought, Lea had already torn
      open the package.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Another Dumbledore! They must put him in like every other package,
      I've already got ten of him."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna, meanwhile, was staring at the frog, which had hopped to the
      middle of the small table and seemed to be looking for an escape
      route.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Do you think they have feelings?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      Lea seemed taken aback. "Luna, they're made of chocolate!"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Look at the small thing. It's like he wants to escape. Of course,
      you could say it's driven by instincts, but that's just semantics,
      isn't it?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      Lea was quiet for a second, then she sounded angry. "You've got to
      make it all weird, don't you? I've lost my appetite."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "If you honestly think you wouldn't eat it now, how can you want to
      have eaten it without thinking?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna reached out slowly, stroking the frog with her fingertips. It
      was cool and smooth, and though the chocolate was getting soft and
      sticky under Luna's touch, it didn't feel wet, as a real frog would
      have.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Well, aren't you a curious little thing?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      The frog quivered slightly under her touch, as though it had
      understood her.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Then it exploded.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Within a split second, it went from being a reasonable
      approximation of a common frog to a horrid mess splattered around
      the entire compartment. Part of it must have been liquid, since
      solid chocolate wouldn't have spread quite that thin, and as Luna
      looked closely, she could see that there were more solid parts
      sticking to some of the larger stains, formed like small tubes and
      pebbles.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Lea was wiping at her face with a tissue.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "That's it!", she declared, obviously indignant. "You've been weird
      from the beginning, but making a chocolate frog explode, after
      you've almost convinced me that it had feelings? That's more than
      weird, that's twisted. You're going to end up in Slytherin and I'll
      be glad that I won't have to sleep in the same dorm as you!"<br class="calibre4"/>
      She stood there for a few seconds, out of breath after her
      outburst. When Luna didn't answer at all, she finally turned around
      on her heel and marched away.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna, meanwhile, was completely engrossed in watching what seemed
      to be tiny bones and organs in the remains of the frog. Ordinarily,
      chocolate frogs didn't contain any of those parts; they were made
      of solid, homogeneous enchanted chocolate. If one disregarded that
      this one frog might have been aberrant, which would have been a
      startling coincidence, something had changed its composition,
      likely directly before causing it to explode.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna knew it couldn't have been herself. She didn't know any magic
      with those effects and likely wouldn't be powerful enough to cast
      it. Accidental magic was more than unlikely as well. Firstly,
      because she had gotten her wand a few days back, and accidental
      magic usually didn't occur after that, since a wand was a powerful
      symbol of control over magic, or so went the theory, at least. The
      second reason was, once again, the complexity of the enchanted
      frog: Usually, accidental magic changed things to a simpler state
      or produced chaos, and it wasn't good at interfering with the
      structured magic of an enchanted frog.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Her next guess would have been an invisible older student pranking
      them. However, she still remembered having thought about chocolate
      frogs with realistic innards without telling Lea anything. A
      prankster would have been more likely to just explode the frog
      without any embellishment.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Therefore, something was here which knew how to work complicated
      magic, was invisible and could read her mind. A thought should
      suffice, but Luna liked the dramatic tension of announcing her
      conclusion out loud.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "I know you're there." Even among the many sounds of the train, her
      voice resounded in just the right way: Silent and ominous. Luna
      smiled.<br class="calibre4"/>
      And was thoroughly surprised when Ginny Weasley came around the
      corner, looking slightly embarrassed. "Hey Luna. I didn't know
      whether to come in, you seemed busy."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Oh, hi Ginny. Take a seat, don't mind the froggy mess."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Ginny sat down. After a moment's study of the chocolate stains, she
      took out a handkerchief. "Do you mind if I clean that up?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna opened her mouth, but in the tiny interval before she started
      to speak, a thousand colorful lights exploded behind her lids. She
      seized up and everything went black.</p>
      <!--/main--></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
