<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>On the Continuity of Consciousness - On the Continuity of Consciousness</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="On the Continuity of Consciousness"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre4">
<div class="calibre4" id="chapter-2"><!-- chapter management --> 
      <!--main content-->
      <p class="calibre7">"Luna, are you alright?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna woke up, torn from a black, dreamless sleep. Ginny's forehead
      was creased, her eyebrows lifted in the middle. Luna took a second
      to decode the expression and decided it was worry. She smiled her
      soft, slightly dazed smile.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Yes. Just a bit tired."<br class="calibre4"/>
      It was an easy excuse because no one could have looked into her
      head to check. Headaches worked the same way. No one could do
      anything about lack of sleep or a headache, and so no one did
      anything, leaving her alone with the raging chaos. Luna closed her
      eyes again.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Luna, it's not usual to fall asleep mid-sentence. Has this
      happened before to you?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "It does, sometimes. But I've already been to a -"</p>
      <p class="calibre7">"Most unusual. Most unusual indeed."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Do you understand what it is she suffers from?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "It seems to be a disease of the mind. I will have to consult with
      my colleagues."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Blurred colours snapped into focus for a second as the healer
      hurried out of the door, leaving Luna alone with her Father.
      Xenophilius Lovegood turned towards his daughter, worry and hurt
      etched deep into the lines of his face.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "I can't lose you, Luna. Not you as well."<br class="calibre4"/>
      He pulled Luna into a hug, but by that point, she was already gone
      again, her body but a shell as her mind soared onto greater
      heights. What would she have answered, had she had time enough to
      answer him? "Don't worry"? That was part of it, she decided, and
      lost that train of thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">"- healer, and they said they couldn't do anything. It's not too
      bad."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna watched Ginny's forehead grow smooth again, and decided to
      close her eyes to get a bit more rest.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "You know, Luna, I really don't think you should fall asleep on the
      train to Hogwarts. What if you're still half asleep when they sort
      you, and you are put in Hufflepuff as a result?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "I don't think the Sorting Hat is that easy to fool, Ginny."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Wait, they let a hat sort us? Who told you that? My family refused
      to tell me anything!"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "I don't know, I must have read it somewhere."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Hmm." Ginny looked thoughtful. "You like reading? I don't remember
      that about you."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Oh, I don't know. I just pick some things up." In fact, now that
      she thought about it, she couldn't remember at all where she had
      read about the Sorting Hat, but memory was strange like that,
      sometimes.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Wouldn't it be nicer if they just let us make the decisions
      ourselves?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "You know yourself well enough to decide something that
      important?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Sure. If you're so confused that you don't know what you want out
      of your life, just look into a magic mirror or something. Ron told
      me there was one in Hogwarts."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna opened her eyes, startled. Something about the concept seemed
      eerily familiar.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Ginny misunderstood her surprise and backpedaled: "Not that I think
      you're confused, or that I was talking about you particularly! I
      meant more of a general you."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna closed her eyes again, trying to concentrate. The Sorting Hat,
      a mirror, how did those two fit together?<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Hey, Luna?" Once again, Ginny had misunderstood her. "Please don't
      be mad at me. I didn't mean anything by it."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna looked at her, and for a second, she saw Ginny as she really
      was: A young girl desperately in need of a friend who saw her as
      herself, and not just as part of a large family. The moment passed,
      but for once, Luna knew exactly what to say. "We're friends, Ginny,
      and nothing could change that."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Then, the exhaustion from her earlier blackout caught up with her,
      and it was easier to pretend to be asleep for the rest of the train
      ride.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">"I'm scared, Luna."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Ginny stood close beside Luna, whispering to her so that the rest
      of the waiting first-years couldn't hear her. Why did she
      care?<br class="calibre4"/>
      "I am too, Ginny."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "What if the Sorting Hat puts us into different Houses?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna was baffled. "That's what you're scared of?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Yes, of course!" Ginny's voice had risen above a whisper in
      outrage. "Don't you want to spend our time at Hogwarts
      together?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Oh, of course. But what does the Sorting have to do with that?
      We'll have some classes together even if we aren't in the same
      House."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Well, if you are so sure of that, what are you scared of,
      then?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna looked at Ginny's small, freckled face, studied the curve of
      her eyebrows and the way her eyes were tightened, but she didn't
      understand. Was Ginny still frightened or angry, now? Had Luna said
      something to hurt her, and if so, what could she say to undo it?
      Why were emotions always so hard to understand? But time was
      ticking by in the world outside her head, and her long pause would
      seem strange by now, so she had to make a choice.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "I'm scared of an invisible thing which can read my thoughts. It
      showed itself on the train and made Lea leave, and I don't know if
      it's followed me. For that matter, I can't be sure I've ever been
      truly alone at any point in my entire life, but now I know it's
      there and it can act on reality and I - "<br class="calibre4"/>
      She managed to stop herself at that point. Ginny was now a step
      away from Luna and not looking directly at her, anymore. The other
      first-years around them were turned in Luna's direction, but they
      also stared blankly, unfocused. What did this mean? Luna could feel
      her heart beat faster. She was interacting with people she had
      never seen before, and they were all doing exactly the same thing,
      so it was likely an emotional cue she hadn't picked up on. The
      possibilities overwhelmed her for a moment. Far from knowing how to
      act, she didn't even know what was happening.<br class="calibre4"/>
      It was a relief when the flashing colours came again and she passed
      out.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">-~O~-</p>
      <p class="calibre7">The Hat's voice woke her. It creaked like leather and settled
      like dust. It seemed like the voice itself was made of old age and
      the comfortable worn-ness of a favourite piece of clothing. Luna
      lost herself so much in the sound of it that she had no chance to
      make out the words.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "I'm sorry Mr. Hat, could you repeat that?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "I said, 'Oh dear. This has never happened before...'."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna felt an odd twinge at the words. "What has never happened
      before, you repeating yourself?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "How could surprise at repeating myself be the first thing I
      mention, when you would only ask me to repeat myself
      afterwards?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna thought for a second about that. The Hat had presented it as
      though it was supposed to be some sort of puzzling paradox, but she
      just couldn't see any contradiction. "Well, obviously you would be
      able to see the future of a student, but only while you were placed
      on their head. How else could anybody expect you to make the right
      decision while Sorting while still maintaining the privacy of every
      single student?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "How else, indeed. Did it occur to you, Miss Lovegood, that I might
      just extrapolate from your current state of mind? Maybe I could
      even ask you what you thought about the Houses yourself. If all
      else failed, I would still have a millennium's worth of wisdom to
      rely on." The Hat's voice had taken on a sarcastic inflection, but
      it softened with the next sentence. "Even though I can't see the
      future, we will find the right House for you."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "What would be the right House for me?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      The hat chuckled. "Well, you have some choice in the matter. You
      might go to Hufflepuff, where you will find support to last you
      long after your seven years in school. You might go to Ravenclaw,
      since though others might not see it, your mind is sharper than
      most. Gryffindor and Slytherin, I think, would be less ideal for
      you."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Why would I go to Hufflepuff for support, when Ginny will be in
      Gryffindor?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Ah, sweet child." The hat sounded weary with age. "Not all
      childhood friendships last forever, and if you would stay too close
      to young Miss Weasley, she would feel burdened by you. Haven't you
      begun to notice it yourself? The little sighs when she thinks
      you're not looking? She'll grow tired of guiding you, of taking
      care of you because you're lost in your own head."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "I don't think so." Luna's voice was firm with anger. "I don't
      believe in the present you're describing, and I don't think much of
      your predictions for the future either."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Such anger! Gryffindor and Slytherin seem more fitting now,
      indeed."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "You've changed your prediction after a single rebuke from me? I
      don't believe I'll take your advice, thank you very much."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Young lady, I don't like your attitude, and it would be wise not
      to talk that way to a being as old as I."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "I don't trust you. Never trust anything that can think for itself
      if you can't see where it keeps its brain."<br class="calibre4"/>
      The hat was silent for a moment. "Where did you hear that?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "I read it in a book, I think. Does it matter?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      Somehow, Luna got a vivid impression of the hat shaking its head.
      "Different minds see the future differently, it seems. Though it's
      generally good advice, it doesn't apply right now, since you
      already put me onto your head, and I'm already inside your mind.
      Though it is a most formidable maze, it is as easy to change as any
      other."<br class="calibre4"/>
      For a moment, Luna struggled to understand what the hat had
      insinuated, then she shattered into a thousand pieces.<br class="calibre4"/>
      The Hat's voice woke her. It creaked like leather and settled like
      dust. It seemed like the voice itself was made of old age and the
      comfortable worn-ness of a favourite piece of clothing. Luna lost
      herself so much in the sound of it that she had no chance to make
      out the words.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "I'm sorry Mr. Hat, could you repeat that?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "I said, 'Why, you've got one of the more interesting minds this
      old hat has ever seen.' But don't worry, I'm sure we'll find the
      right house for you."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "I'm tired, Mr. Hat."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Of course you are, child. We'll be done quite soon. How does
      Ravenclaw sound to you?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna couldn't think straight through the haze in her head. There
      had been a question she wanted to ask. "What has never happened
      before, you repeating yourself?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      The hat cursed. It was an odd curse, archaic enough to be quite
      incomprehensible, something about a frog, an eagle and a roll of
      twine. The hat took a deep breath.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Wait, Mr. Hat!"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "RAVENCLAW!"<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna opened her eyes slowly. At the Ravenclaw table in the Great
      Hall, students were cheering politely. As she made her way over to
      the Ravenclaw table, still feeling as though in a dream, she saw
      Ginny looking pointedly away and felt like a traitor. She took a
      seat at the table, not reacting to anything the other students
      said. If she had paid attention, Luna would have seen the way her
      classmates looked at her, would have heard them muttering. She
      didn't care, just as she didn't care about Ginny right now. She was
      lost in deeper thoughts.<br class="calibre4"/>
      By the time the next student got sorted into Ravenclaw, the others
      had already given up on talking to her.</p>
      <!--/main--></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
