<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>On the Continuity of Consciousness - On the Continuity of Consciousness</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="On the Continuity of Consciousness"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre4">
<div class="calibre4" id="chapter-4"><!-- chapter management --> 
      <!--main content-->
      <p class="calibre7">"You're sure it wasn't Wrackspurts?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "I'm sure, Luna. How could Wrackspurts have caused this incoherent
      mess of a past?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Well, they're - "<br class="calibre4"/>
      She was interrupted by Ginny. "If I'm understanding you right,
      Colin, you think there's been someone no one remembers in Hogwarts
      last year."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Yes! Everything just doesn't fit. From the first day,
      unprecedented things happened. First, there was the incident with
      the Sorting Hat no one wants to talk about. Usually, when the
      Sorting Hat does something strange, we would expect a Sorting to be
      involved, and therefore, a student.<br class="calibre4"/>
      After that, there was a steady escalation of bullying, the kind
      that really hurt people. In situations like that, there's almost
      always a student standing up to the bullies, resisting the
      authorities' attempts to defuse the situation. Of course everyone
      remembers how David Monroe ended the conflict, but no one seems to
      remember how it was started.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Now, remember Battle Magic? Records of the first years' battles
      tell of armies with clearly defined motifs and intentions, as
      though they were led by charismatic leaders, but in the first
      battles, Neville and Ron clearly weren't the forces they later
      became. Someone else must have led those armies unofficially, but
      no one remembers.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Finally, there's You-Know-Who's second fall."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "What about his second fall?" Ginny sounded concerned.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Do you remember anything about the first time he supposedly
      fell?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      Ginny looked at Colin as though she was slightly disoriented.
      "He... he disappeared. He was beaten."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "By whom?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "I don't - look, Colin, those are all interesting questions, but
      there's got to be answers. Have you looked in the library? Have you
      asked any of the older students?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "I didn't have to." Out of a pocket, Colin drew a piece of lined
      muggle parchment which was filled with his tiny, cramped script in
      faded ink. The edges of the parchment were slightly burned. "This
      was written in invisible ink. Nothing fancy, just lemon juice. It
      contains notes from interviews with Ron Weasley, Tracy Davis, even
      Neville Longbottom. There are all kinds of little contradictions
      and obvious holes. It's impossible to establish a timeline of last
      year, it just doesn't have anything in common with a reasonable
      story at all!"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "So... you did ask the older students?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Obviously, but I don't remember any of it!"<br class="calibre4"/>
      Ginny was dumbstruck, and Colin was clearly scared out of his mind.
      Luna had to restore sanity to the situation.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Wrackspurts explain everything. They confuse and confound, and in
      retrospect, large flocks of wrackspurts have been behind every
      conspiracy of the modern wizarding world."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Ginny rolled her eyes. "That's nice enough, Luna, but I really have
      to go. I don't want to miss lunch."<br class="calibre4"/>
      When they were alone, Colin grabbed his temples as though he was
      nursing a headache. "Okay, Luna. At this point, you're the only
      lead I have. How do we find these wrackspurts?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Oh, it's simple, Colin. They're already here."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "I don't see anything. This hallway's practically empty."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "I can show you." Luna concentrated. She had had ample opportunity
      to practice, lately. Her mind's floodgates opened, and once again,
      Colin's eyes widened with fear. His eyeballs rolled upwards until
      only the whites were visible, and he fainted. As he lay on the
      floor, he kept on gibbering madly.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna picked up the lined muggle parchment and frowned. What had
      Colin said had been wrong with the story? Contradictions and holes.
      He wanted a coherent timeline. Right now, she had no idea how to
      fix this, but she was all out of lemons anyway. Maybe she would
      find inspiration on the way to the kitchens.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">Inspiration came to her, at last, in a dream, as it always did.
      It was spoken by a hollow voice that belled forth from a gap within
      the air itself, a gap that opened upon a fiery abyss. Or at least,
      that's what the wrackspurt that relayed the message told her. Its
      many mouths quivered, shaping infinitely small sounds that fell
      together into a coherent name. "Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres",
      it said.<br class="calibre4"/>
      And just like that, everything fit.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna woke with a start, and began to write. From time to time, she
      had to squeeze fresh lemon juice, and the bad light in the
      Ravenclaw common room made it hard to see. Besides all that, Colin
      Creevey's handwriting really was terrible as well as terribly
      exhausting to imitate. However, her inspiration was transfixed. She
      didn't forget a single facet of the absurd story she had seen in
      her dream, packing it all into fictional interviews with those whom
      she now knew as Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres trusted
      lieutenants, his enemies and his admirers. And what a story it was!
      It had an ancient and mad wizard, a sidekick with the makings of a
      true hero and a protagonist who was so deeply flawed that he had
      managed to convince not only himself he was right, but also the
      universe itself.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna wrote the last line on a sheet that still seemed as empty as
      when she had begun. This time, she was truly proud of herself.
      Though she still had no intuitive sense of plot holes and
      contradictions, she had the vague feeling that Colin would believe
      this one.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">The very next morning, she snuck the paper into Colin's pocket
      when he was eating breakfast. She spent the day giddy with
      anticipation. Though her classes were, as always, filled with
      systematic misinformation planted by several conflicting secret
      societies, and her classmates hardly could have cared less for her,
      she didn't stumble. This time, Colin would believe the false
      secret, and then, she could tell him about all the real secrets no
      one ever believed her about.<br class="calibre4"/>
      It was soul-crushing on several levels when she found his petrified
      body with the piece of paper still stuck in his pocket. Of course,
      she took it back. If the wrong person found it on him, they would
      just throw the empty and crumpled piece of parchment away, and it
      held too much meaning to just let someone do that.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna went on with her day. It hadn't even occurred to her to tell
      someone about Colin's petrification.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">At night, she had the strangest dream. It was tranquil, unlike
      her usual dreams, in which strange shapes and colours fought for
      attention with shrill sounds.<br class="calibre4"/>
      She was in her dorm at night, and a boy was sitting on the edge of
      her bed, face turned away from her. Somehow, it didn't seem like
      she had anything to fear from him, though his face was obscured
      under a veil of shadows.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Luna Lovegood. You just might be the most extraordinary student
      among the first-years."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "I am?" Truth be told, Luna hadn't ever paid enough attention to
      the other first-years to find out how extraordinary they
      were.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Oh, indeed. I don't mean to imply that you don't have fierce
      competition, though. Colin Creevey, for example, was a most
      interesting contender until about this morning."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Why is he disqualified now? Isn't he more unique, now that he's
      the only first-year made of stone?" Sarcasm wasn't something Luna
      employed, ever. She was honestly curious about the criteria of
      uniqueness her visitor employed.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "He won't be the only one for long, if this petrification
      proliferates." The figure chuckled. "But let's hope it doesn't come
      to that. If you do your best, a catastrophe might still be
      prevented."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "You don't have to worry on my account, I'm always doing my
      best."<br class="calibre4"/>
      The visitor put his hand to his forehead, his fingers flattening
      the shadows. "I'm trying to imply something here, can't you just
      try to drop some subtle hints that you understood what I was really
      getting at?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Why can't you just tell me? It would certainly lead to fewer
      misunderstandings."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Okay. I'll need a moment, though, I have to salvage the dramatic
      tension."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Take your time, I'll be here the entire night."<br class="calibre4"/>
      After a minute, the figure spoke again. "It falls to you, Luna
      Lovegood, to save Hogwarts from certain doom! If you choose to help
      me, you will become... a double witch!"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "A double witch? Now that's silly."<br class="calibre4"/>
      The boy sounded really exasperated now. "Yes, my public speaking
      abilities have deteriorated over the past few months of isolation.
      Are you in or not?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "That depends. Do you think Crumple-Horned Snorkacks are
      responsible? I don't think I could fight them. I don't think I even
      have a chance at finding one."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Don't you suppose this is rather the domain of Wrackspurts?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "If it was Wrackspurts, we wouldn't even have found a trace of
      Colin. They're secretive." Luna pointedly ignored the dry sarcasm
      in the boy's voice.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "You learn something new every day. I do think you should be more
      inquisitive from now on, though. You didn't even ask me who I
      was."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "That's just because you're obviously Harry James
      Potter-Evans-Verres. Sneaking into a girl's bedroom is your way of
      convincing yourself that Dumbledore was your true mentor, not
      Quirrel. You should write a message or two in my potions book,
      while you're at it."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Ah." For a second, the boy was at loss for words. "That's
      certainly... insightful."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Luna Lovegood, amateur sleuth, at your service. Now if you would
      excuse me, I have to get up early tomorrow. There are mysteries to
      be solved."<br class="calibre4"/>
      It had been a strange dream indeed, but there wasn't any doubt in
      Luna's mind that it had been true. Prophetic dreams were often the
      strangest, after all. So she set out to investigate, first thing in
      the morning. After all, if Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres thought
      it was important, there were no two ways about it.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">Luna woke up, her memories of dreaming a vague, blurry thing. By
      the time she was fully awake, only a vague impression of complexity
      remained. A dream within a dream, maybe. She shook her head and
      forgot about it.</p>
      <!--/main--></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
