<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>On the Continuity of Consciousness - On the Continuity of Consciousness</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="On the Continuity of Consciousness"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre4">
<div class="calibre4" id="chapter-8"><!-- chapter management --> 
      <!--main content-->
      <p class="calibre7">At first, Luna had been all too content to write the two boys'
      behaviour off as something she just wouldn't ever understand, but
      halfway through dinner, she changed her mind. That kind of attitude
      was just wrong, no matter what it was about. Curiosity was to be
      sated, and giving up just because you didn't understand yet was the
      height of weakness.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Back in the common room, she sat cross-legged on her bed. It was
      the posture in which she always fought her most complicated mental
      battles; not because of any inherent geometrimystical properties of
      crossed legs, but simply out of habit. Now that she thought about
      it, though, maybe crossed legs had geometrimystical properties. It
      would go a long way towards explaining why she had won so many of
      those complicated mental battles. She started on a few mental
      sketches of geometrical classifications of different postures
      containing crossed legs, until she noticed that she was distracting
      herself and decided to put it off. She would think about it first
      thing next morning, she decided. After all, if she didn't, it would
      distract her every time she crossed her legs, which was, after all,
      when she had to fight her most complicated mental battles.<br class="calibre4"/>
      She closed her eyes, breathed deeply and tried to slow her pulse.
      Finally, she felt she was ready, and pulled up her memories on what
      happened in that corridor. She remembered not looking where she was
      going, when she had walked into one of the boys, just a bump with
      her shoulder. He'd said "Hey!", and as he'd looked at her, there
      had been a moment of realization on his face. Okay, that was
      something to work with.<br class="calibre4"/>
      He had realized something right as he looked at her, had had some
      kind of idea.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna was at a loss for how to find out what kind of idea he had
      had. There was an almost infinite scope of possibilities
      there.<br class="calibre4"/>
      How could she know what kind of idea someone else had gotten? Well,
      how did she know when she had an idea herself?<br class="calibre4"/>
      When she had an idea herself, she would know more after the idea
      than before, and usually think about something different, which
      would, most likely change her actions as well. Luna smiled an
      inward smile. It didn't show on her face, but it felt warm and
      fuzzy anyway. She deserved it because she had figured out something
      by assuming other people thought like she did, and yet it felt
      right. This was a rare thing to happen, and when it did, it
      reinforced her feeling of companionship to humans in general in a
      most pleasing way.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Now, before the idea the boy had said "Hey", and afterwards he had
      complained about for a long time about how Luna had hurt him by
      walking into him. This was somewhat confusing, since Luna really
      wouldn't expect to hurt anyone by walking into them. So the boy was
      either exceedingly fragile, or he had been lying.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Lying had always been a rather difficult topic for Luna to wrap her
      head around. For her, there weren't many intermediate steps between
      thinking and saying something, and the thought of thinking about
      what you were saying beforehand to create untruths was just weird.
      In this case, though, it seemed the more likely hypothesis.<br class="calibre4"/>
      So the boy had been lying when he had complained. Why? He had
      expected to gain something from it, but you couldn't gain a lot by
      speaking. Basically, you could only influence people. And since
      Luna was the person he had been talking to, he must have been
      trying to influence her.<br class="calibre4"/>
      What had he been trying to get her to do? He'd asked for an apology
      shortly after talking to her, but he hadn't been content with it,
      anyway, so that couldn't have been it. After that, both of the boys
      had pushed her around while calling her names, behaviour Luna still
      found more than puzzling.<br class="calibre4"/>
      She wasn't getting anywhere with this, and she was getting upset
      thinking about it. In fact she had half a mind to just stop this
      whole train of thought now. She might have even done it, if the
      other half of her mind hadn't remembered her mother's words in that
      exact moment. "Think longer about thinks and you'll understand
      them."<br class="calibre4"/>
      And her mother had been right. If Luna hadn't started to think
      longer about things, she never would have found out about so many
      things. Basic, boring facts that she had badly needed, at first,
      like how to cook, clean and do the other housework which her mother
      had used to do. Then, as she invested more time, she had arrived at
      such wonderful things as the anatomy of the Crumple-Horned
      Snorkack, which was truly improbable and her pride and joy. Once,
      she had even understood a deep secret, namely, why her father
      always looked so disheveled since her mother was gone.<br class="calibre4"/>
      She was frustrated, and she was angry at herself, and she might
      even be a little sad, but there was a way out of these bad
      feelings, and it went through understanding. So she began to think
      again, and this time, by some instinct, she started in the middle.
      The boys had pushed her around and called her names. Luna was
      always bad at remembering faces, so she didn't know what sort of
      expressions they had worn while doing that, but she was good at
      remembering sounds, and she remembered laughter in the air. Since
      she clearly hadn't been happy, it must have been the boys. If they
      had been happy, what they had been doing had probably been their
      purpose from the beginning.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Now, pieces of the puzzle fell in place. Luna still didn't
      understand the first thing about the things the boys had said
      before that, or why the one she had walked into had pretended to be
      hurt, but she knew what it was called when people found enjoyment
      in pushing others around and calling them names. It was bullying.
      She had been bullied.<br class="calibre4"/>
      With that word, she understood so much at once that she barely had
      time to notice it all. She understood how she herself had felt,
      both directly after what had happened and when she had forced
      herself to think about it. She understood why the few people
      walking by at the time had pretended not to have seen anything, and
      she even understood why Professor McGonagall had talked about
      bullying while they had been in her office.<br class="calibre4"/>
      The elation faded when she combined her realization with what she
      already knew. The boy she had walked into had recognized her and
      bullied her afterward. So he probably wouldn't have bullied anyone
      else. She remembered what Professor McGonagall had said: "They'll
      grow bored of ignoring you." So this was it, then? They had grown
      bored of ignoring her already and so she was a target now.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Somehow, this made Luna intensely angry. She didn't think she had
      been that angry before, and she didn't even know what she was angry
      at. Part of her was angry at everything, part of her was angry at
      the bullies, but that wasn't the biggest part. The biggest part was
      angry at herself. She couldn't help shake the feeling that she was
      different, she knew she was different, and that was what had made
      them bully her. The complex dance of social interaction had never
      been something Luna had understood very well, and with the way she
      had just ignored all conventions, people had probably singled her
      out from the start. In other words, she had made missteps. She had
      tread on others' feet and ignored the rhythm entirely, and when she
      had finally literally walked into someone, that had been the step
      that broke the camel's fetlock.<br class="calibre4"/>
      In simpler words, it was her fault.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Oh, it wasn't entirely her fault, she wasn't that arrogant. A lot
      of the share of the blame lay on the two boys' shoulders, and a lot
      of others had enabled them. But Luna had been the one to take the
      first step outside of social convention, and when you did something
      different than a whole lot of people, there was always a chance you
      were just wrong.<br class="calibre4"/>
      That thought broke her out of her misery. It was just so, so
      entirely unlike her. When she was different than others, she wasn't
      necessarily wrong. She didn't think many people thought as
      intensely about things as she did, and she was quite sure, at the
      risk of sounding arrogant, of being the world's foremost authority
      on Crumple-Horned Snorkacks as a result. Before she could assign
      any blame to herself, before she could even think about changing
      herself, she had to think about it longer.<br class="calibre4"/>
      And in her haste, she had failed to consider something quite
      important. At the end, the boys had run away, and she knew now that
      this was out of the ordinary. They had been scared off, though Luna
      hadn't done anything. Therefore, there had been a third entity at
      work. Now, she supposed it could have been a teacher, but that
      seemed unlikely judging from Professor McGonagall's reaction. It
      could also have been a student, but she hadn't seen anyone do
      anything, and who was she even kidding?<br class="calibre4"/>
      There could have only been one third entity, and it was the one
      that had blown up a Chocolate Frog on the train. There was one
      coherent explanation for all its actions: It had wanted to do her a
      favour.<br class="calibre4"/>
      This, at last, reassured her, and a warm glow spread through her
      body.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Without thinking, she spoke softly: "Thank you, friend."<br class="calibre4"/>
      As she opened her eyes, she saw that the other Ravenclaw first-year
      girls had by now arrived in their dorm room and were, one and all,
      staring at her. She saw Lea's face twist in open disgust and knew
      that she had to say something to explain herself that would also
      seem brilliant and funny, but her mind was racing in circles and
      she just had no clue at all.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Before she could think of anything, bright lights exploded behind
      her lids and she faded away.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">She awoke in a hospital bed, and it was already morning. Looking
      around, she saw that it was too small to be St. Mungo's, and
      therefore had to be the Hogwarts hospital wing. She hadn't expected
      to make it into the hospital wing within the first five
      weeks.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Something on a chair beside her bed stirred, and it took her a
      second to recognize Lea. She stared at the girl in open-mouthed
      surprise. Why was she at her hospital bed?<br class="calibre4"/>
      Lea cleared her throat. "I'm only going to say this once, so you
      better listen up. When the other girls and I brought you in, Madame
      Pomfrey told me you had some kind of mental illness. I have no idea
      how much of your", she scoffed, "behaviour is really excused by
      that, but I'm willing to give you the benefit of the doubt. If you
      promise to stop acting weird, I'll give you a second chance."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna took a second to process that. Maybe she was still asleep,
      since she hadn't understood at all what Lea wanted to say. "A
      second chance at what?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      Lea lifted her eyebrows as though the question was beneath her, but
      Luna, who had seen Professor McGonagall lift a single eyebrow, was
      not impressed and just waited until Lea spoke.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "A second chance at being friends with me."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna smiled an inward smile. She was pretty sure that she knew,
      now, what friends were. "I don't think it's really friendship if it
      comes with those kinds of strings attached."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Lea scowled at first, then shrugged. "Suit yourself, Loony. See you
      tomorrow in class, then."</p>
      <p class="calibre7">Luna had no idea what she should do with the rest of the day,
      now that she was sitting here alone in the hospital wing with an
      entire day of lying in bed before her. She could think about
      something, but she could do that at any time when she didn't have
      anything else to do, like in History of Magic. It took a few
      seconds of thinking about thinking until she had an idea. She had a
      friend now, so she could just as well contact it.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Hey, she thought. Don't try to answer me on this, or I suppose I'll
      get knocked out again. I have an idea to circumvent that, but I
      guess you'd know. If you think it's a bad one, feel free to
      interrupt me with a seizure.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna waited for a few seconds, since she had noticed that interval
      with the earlier incidents. After there was no seizure forthcoming,
      she snuck out of bed, treading lightly.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luckily, there was no one else in the hospital wing. Even Madame
      Pomfrey seemed to be away right now, and it was a short trip to the
      medicine cabinet. Of course, it was locked, since Madame Pomfrey
      was likely one of the most sensible persons in Hogwarts, but Luna
      knew just what she could do about that.<br class="calibre4"/>
      She put two fingers on the lock and willed it to open. Five seconds
      later, it sprang open with a click. Luna giggled to herself. This
      was almost as though she could do magic.<br class="calibre4"/>
      She looked over the bottles of potions and pills carefully, until
      she had found the one she wanted. She had no idea how she had known
      this was the one, but she was so used to correct conjectures just
      feeling right that she didn't even question it. She crushed three
      pills and took them with a glass of water. She knew, somehow, that
      this was a strong dose, but it would work just fine.<br class="calibre4"/>
      She barely made it to her hospital bed before she collapsed. Her
      last thought before everything went dark was that she had left the
      medicine cabinet open, but she trusted her friend to take care of
      that.</p>
      <!--/main--></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
