<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>On the Continuity of Consciousness - On the Continuity of Consciousness</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="On the Continuity of Consciousness"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre4">
<div class="calibre4" id="chapter-9"><!-- chapter management --> 
      <!--main content-->
      <p class="calibre7">Falling asleep was usually a process so blurred that most of the
      time, Luna didn't even notice when she passed the border into her
      dreams. This time, the sensation was so abrupt and disorienting
      that the border might as well have been a wall of fire ten feet
      tall. She was falling, tumbling around in a manner not too
      different from Floo fire. Her eyes were open, and yet she couldn't
      see anything. What filled her vision was neither darkness nor
      blinding light, but something so nondescript that it evaded
      perception.<br class="calibre4"/>
      It was a relief when she noticed a solid object: A golden oval,
      filled with a picture. She fell forwards, and through it.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">-~O~-</p>
      <p class="calibre7">Luna Lovegood had known that she was different from the
      beginning. From her tenth year onward, she had known a truth no one
      else did: There was something seriously wrong with the way magic
      worked. Luna had arrived at this conclusion solely through reason
      and observation, though without her mother's death, her eyes might
      never have been opened.<br class="calibre4"/>
      After Pandora's death, the violent and completely unexpected
      outcome of an experiment that should have been harmless, Luna had
      sat down and thought. She had never been one for careful thinking,
      before, so she had needed some time to get used to the basics of
      concentration, extrapolation and verification, but once she had
      gotten there, the rest of the way was straight, if not narrow. In
      fact, it had been absolutely sprawling: The possibilities of
      explanation for what had happened were staggering. There was the
      possibility of a fatal mistake by Pandora, a rare statistical
      fluctuation in which a spell did something completely different, a
      magic-devouring monster or, even simpler, the possibility that Luna
      had simply gone mad and only imagined what she had seen.<br class="calibre4"/>
      The last option was quickly eliminated by virtue of being useless.
      From the inside, Luna would never know if all she ever saw were
      hallucinations, and if she assumed so, no correct course of action
      ensued. After all, she would have no idea how to actually see the
      real world, and no idea of knowing truth if she ever saw it.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Therefore, there was an external culprit.<br class="calibre4"/>
      The careful weighing of evidence took her months, and her
      conclusion was only reached when her wand chose her, at
      Ollivander's. It had taken Ollivander a long time to find her
      match, with many wands rejecting her, until he had, finally, with a
      worried frown on his face, brought her another one.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "10', Alder, core of dragon heartstring, rigid.", he had said. "I
      do not think, though..."<br class="calibre4"/>
      He had been interrupted by the wand giving of a powerful shower of
      sparks in her hand.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Astonishing. I had judged you for the yielding type, yet this is
      the type of wand which chooses strong people. Do you have a goal to
      accomplish, one that might elude you for life?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna had not known before, but in that moment, it had become
      definite. "Yes. To find the nature of magic." And change it, though
      she hadn't spoken that out loud.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Ollivander had raised his eyebrows and her father had chuckled. It
      was clear that they hadn't been taking her seriously, but it didn't
      matter. Luna had finally figured out what had happened to her
      mother.<br class="calibre4"/>
      It had been so obvious, in retrospect: Her mother had died of
      casting a spell. It was clear where the fault lay, no matter the
      intermediary: Magic. Something, somehow, was wrong with magic, when
      a spell could kill the wizard who had cast it. Be it through a
      small mistake becoming deadly, fluctuations in the effects of
      spells or even a magic-devouring monster, all of those could be
      fixed easily once she had found out just what was at the root of
      every wizard's ability to cast spells, and found out a way to
      change it.<br class="calibre4"/>
      With that realization, Diagon Alley made her uncomfortable. Magic
      was everywhere in this place, used for menial tasks and the tiniest
      of amusements. Now that she suspected any piece of magic might kill
      her, she didn't feel safe at all. Sadly, the trip to buy school
      robes and other supplies was far from over.<br class="calibre4"/>
      When they had finally arrived back at their house, Luna was
      relieved. Most wizarding houses contained about the same density of
      magic as Diagon Alley did, but the Lovegoods where, as always, the
      exception that proves the rule. Since Pandora's death, Luna had
      been doing her fair share of the housework, and since she was still
      underage, she couldn't exactly use spells to clean dishes, wash
      clothes, or sweep floors. In addition, her father had never been
      very good at that kind of magic, and so the greatest need for
      spells was gone. As in most other households, when the work was
      done, the rest was leisure, and neither Xenophilius (who was still
      very busy with the Quibbler) nor Luna (who spent the most exciting
      hours of her life inside her head) had much need for magical
      distractions.<br class="calibre4"/>
      As a result, Luna could breathe freely in their cluttered,
      sometimes messy home, without any fear for unexpected
      consequences.<br class="calibre4"/>
      When she stood before the Hogwarts Express a week later, she felt
      an almost physical pain at the thought of boarding it. She didn't
      want to enter a world so dangerously magical that even when
      everything worked as intended, students got hurt every day.
      Hogwarts even needed an entire hospital wing -<br class="calibre4"/>
      wasn't she there right now?</p>
      <p class="calibre7">-~O~-</p>
      <p class="calibre7">The thought pulled her out of the dream, and she stared at
      platform 9 3/4 through a golden oval framing it, which was floating
      in the middle of nothing. The picture in the oval still moved - the
      other Luna was boarding the train now, visibly fighting with
      herself.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna shook her head. This expanse of nothing must be where she went
      between dreams. Maybe another golden frame would appear with
      another dream, when she was ready to have it. Why had she never
      remembered this, after waking up?<br class="calibre4"/>
      Her curiosity spiked, and she looked around, though the nothing
      around her made her feel disoriented. When she had turned around
      completely, a different picture stood in the golden oval. There
      were no details in the picture, only blurry, wobbly shapes in
      various colours. Yet she could grasp its meaning.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Welcome.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Without even thinking, she answered. "Thank you."<br class="calibre4"/>
      She blinked, and the picture changed, somehow, while its
      constituent dots remained the same. It was a landscape now,
      depicting the sky in all its possible states of being, from huge,
      foreboding storm clouds to patches of clear and sunny sky. After a
      second, she got it. The picture was making small talk by asking
      about the weather. It was so unexpected that Luna burst out
      laughing, and when she had wiped the tears out of her eyes, the
      picture had changed again.<br class="calibre4"/>
      It was a sequence of objects now, each slightly different than the
      one before it, with the final one just being placed. Again, the
      question was somehow implicit in the composition, the choice of
      colours and the brushwork.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Another?<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna nodded, and when she closed her eyes, she could feel herself
      being pulled into the frame again.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">-~O~-</p>
      <p class="calibre7">Muffled shouting could be heard from inside the locked
      classroom. Luna recognized Harry's voice, completely missed Ginny's
      significant glance, and would have walked right on by, had Ginny
      not opened the door.<br class="calibre4"/>
      The first few sentences of the conversation didn't even register to
      Luna, until she noticed that Harry's tone was quite
      confrontational, and had to intervene.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "You're being rather rude, you know." Truth was always best when
      friends were fighting.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna ignored Harry's even ruder response.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Wait," that was Hermione, who could always be counted on to keep a
      cooler head than Harry. "Wait... Harry, they can help."<br class="calibre4"/>
      A short argument between Harry and Hermione followed, which was
      mostly about someone called Sirius being tortured. Now, this was
      either someone she didn't know, or -<br class="calibre4"/>
      "When you say 'Sirius', are you talking about Stubby
      Boardman?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      As usual, everyone ignored her more important questions, but Luna
      was used to that. She had already decided, anyhow: Obviously
      You-Know-Who would torture Stubby Boardman, most likely to pressure
      him to finally release a new album. You-Know-Who must be a
      fan.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "- otherwise I'm going to the Department of Mysteries right now."
      That was Harry again, still sounding quite rude. Why did no one
      ever listen to her implied advice?<br class="calibre4"/>
      Then she thought about what he had actually said. "The Department
      of Mysteries?" This was a location neither You-Know-Who nor Stubby
      Boardman were known for frequenting. "But how are you going to get
      there?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      Everyone ignored her, again. Then, they started making plans, which
      Luna was fine with. She had realized this was a priceless
      opportunity: She could walk into the Department of Mysteries on the
      heels of a perfectly reasonable - or at least sufficiently
      Gryffindor - attempt to rescue a celebrity in peril. The things she
      could see there...<br class="calibre4"/>
      She followed Ginny out of the room, her head swimming with ideas
      for Quibbler articles based on her fantastical discoveries. She
      would finally be able to unveil so many truths, find evidence for
      the Ministry's darkest dealings. After all, where could Fudge's
      secret Goblin breeding farms be, if not inside the Department of
      Mysteries? There were also the Heliopaths, the Aquavirius Maggots,
      and if she got really lucky and found the Hall of Prophecy, she
      might even find some hint for the location of the Crumple-Horned
      Snorkack.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna barely noticed that Ginny had started a commotion. Even when
      this much was happening around her - students running around, Ginny
      setting a distraction in motion, a daring rescue plan being
      implemented - her head was just so much more interesting than the
      outside world. She was running through everything she had ever
      heard of the Department of Mysteries and trying to compile a floor
      plan, or at least a reasonable list of the things they might
      encounter there. She didn't do this in the manner of one trying to
      account for possible dangers; rather, it was more like a kid
      planning a visit at an amusement park. There was so little time,
      after all, and so much to see, she had to be methodical.<br class="calibre4"/>
      She found it quite rude when Goyle grabbed her, completely
      interrupting her thought process, and told him so. Of course, she
      got ignored once again.<br class="calibre4"/>
      What was it with today? On most reasonable days, she could expect
      to get responses from people, even if they were, most of the time,
      curt and annoyingly narrow-minded. Today, however, she was getting
      ignored, cursed at, ignored again and even interrupted while trying
      to plan a visit to the Department of Mysteries.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Realization and horror dawned slowly. It must be Wrackspurts! The
      damnable little pests had snuck up on her and her friends, inciting
      irritation and confusion. Harry must be the worst off. She
      remembered his conversations with Hermione, how she had been trying
      to calm him down. He was the only one who had been sure of
      You-Know-Who kidnapping Stubby Boardman.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Suddenly, it was obvious that You-Know-Who couldn't really be
      torturing Stubby Boardman. More likely, he was a Celestina Warbeck
      fan; it fit his penchant for melodrama.<br class="calibre4"/>
      But Luna couldn't tell the others that, or the visit to the
      Department of Mysteries would be cancelled.<br class="calibre4"/>
      As she was being dragged into Umbridge's office, she was also
      getting entrenched in a serious moral dilemma. She had to choose
      between curing her friends of a serious case of Wrackspurts,
      thereby alleviating their worry and significantly reducing their
      chance of premature baldness, or visiting the Department of
      Mysteries and learning hidden secrets which were at the root of the
      Ministry's control of wizardkind.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Now, in case of moral dilemmas, one had to avoid two obvious
      mistakes: Thinking like a Gryffindor or a Slytherin. Far more
      clever was it to think like a Ravenclaw, and far more wise to act
      like a Hufflepuff. It would have been easier if theirs were not
      exactly the values of which this dilemma consisted: Attaining
      knowledge and helping her friends.<br class="calibre4"/>
      She weighed the issue for a few minutes, which wasn't easy - there
      were many potential variables involved in assessing the worth of a
      visit to the Department of Mysteries, since it was bound to be,
      unsurprisingly, mysterious.<br class="calibre4"/>
      She got interrupted again, since a fight had broken out in the
      world outside her head, spells and hexes flying through Umbridge's
      office. Sighing, she threw a few of her own into the fray, though
      her friends seemed to have the battle well in hand.<br class="calibre4"/>
      They were out of the office before Luna noticed that Harry and
      Hermione weren't there. She asked about them, but everyone was
      running, out of breath and in no state to answer her, so she just
      went with them.<br class="calibre4"/>
      On the way, she made her decision. If the Hat had sorted her into
      Ravenclaw, it must have wanted her to act like one. Though she
      wasn't proud of pushing the responsibility onto an article of
      clothing, it had to serve for now. A visit to the Department of
      Mysteries seemed much more fun, anyway.<br class="calibre4"/>
      When they had reached the meadows between Hogwarts and the forest,
      Luna gazed wistfully back at the castle, which she assumed she
      wouldn't see again for quite some hours. It struck an impressive
      figure, at this angle. set sharply into relief by the setting sun:
      The astronomy tower, the hospital wing - wait, this was a dream,
      wasn't it?</p>
      <p class="calibre7">-~O~-</p>
      <p class="calibre7">Luna stood outside the golden frame again. This had been a fun
      one - the thought of having so many friends was exhilarating. Of
      course, there were also the many interesting thoughts fourth-year
      Luna had had, and the prospect of an exciting adventure to the
      Department of Mysteries. Could this dream have been one of the
      future?<br class="calibre4"/>
      The picture in the frame answered her with a clear denial. Once
      again, the details were impossible to make out, with only the
      general meaning coming across, somehow.<br class="calibre4"/>
      It took a second for Luna to realize that she hadn't asked her
      question about the dream out loud.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Have you been reading my mind?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      Yes. It wasn't a picture of the word yes, but it might have well
      been, for all its clarity in communicating the abstract concept of
      admittance.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna sat down, crossing her legs. Only after she had done so did
      she realize that she was still floating in midair, somewhat higher,
      now. Confusingly enough, she couldn't figure out how she had done
      it, without any firm ground. She seemed to simply have gone from
      standing to sitting without any of the intermediate motions.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Huh. This was her mind, after all. Though, now that she thought
      about it...<br class="calibre4"/>
      "You communicate in dreams and images, yet I don't think that
      you're my subconscious."<br class="calibre4"/>
      A dry chuckle. It was still visual, not auditory.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna just assumed that the other wanted her to continue. "You just
      wouldn't be up to the job. For once, you're not weird enough. But
      you have a sense of humor, or at least act as though you had one.
      And you can read my mind. The first quality is rare enough, but
      combined with the second... you're my friend, aren't you?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      Admittance. Though the brushwork in this one had been a bit
      hesitant. Was it shy, or just afraid of the consequences of
      revealing himself?<br class="calibre4"/>
      "I wish I could hug you right now."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Melancholy with a tinge of hope. It wasn't possible, at least not
      yet.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "So you can't communicate with me while I'm awake, only arrange
      coincidences. You can, however, talk to me in my dreams, after I've
      taken enough of the pills we've stolen from Madam Pomfrey. This
      doesn't explain where I got the idea that I should take the pills,
      though..."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Anxiety.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Oh, don't worry, I'll take my time to figure this out after we're
      finished here. I assume you want to show me another dream, now that
      I've understood this?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna closed her eyes and could feel herself getting pulled in
      again.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">-~O~-</p>
      <p class="calibre7">This was it. After fifteen years, she had finally completed her
      mother's work.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna breathed deeply and looked over her notes one last time. Her
      desk was stuffed to the brim with parchments, books both old and
      new, even stacks of muggle paper.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Not for the first time, she thought about the debt she owed her
      friends for their help with this: Ginny, for her encouragement,
      Neville, for his support, and most of all, Hermione, for putting
      her on the right track so many times.<br class="calibre4"/>
      She had pointed her in the direction of arithmancy, when she hadn't
      known where to start. Though Luna had, at first, had a rocky start
      with that particular discipline, Hermione hadn't given up on
      tutoring her, until she had mastered a solid foundation for
      spellcrafting.<br class="calibre4"/>
      After that came the hard part: Reconstructing her mother's work
      from memory. All of her mother's notes had been shipped to the
      Department of Mysterys and destroyed in a way so absolute that even
      Luna's memories of talking to her mother hadn't been the same
      afterwards. There had only been one thing left, which the
      Unspeakables had deemed unimportant. A drawing by a muggle artist,
      left behind the desk. It didn't seem real at all, since it was in
      black and white, and didn't move, yet it was still disorienting.
      Two hands were drawing each other, as though the artist had bent
      reality back on itself.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna hadn't suspected that it might have something to do with her
      mother's research, but when she had shown it to Hermione, she had
      noticed the connection very quickly. Luna locked fondly at the
      worn-out and dog-eared book on her desk. It was muggle-bound, soft
      cover, as they called it, which meant that it wasn't a real book at
      all. Though the outside hadn't hinted at it being a tome of arcane
      secrets, it had been astonishing and enlightening in its own
      ways.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Of course, after that, a more formal journey into the works of
      certain muggle mathematicians had been needed. It had been tiring,
      but enjoyable. Luna had learned many things about muggles which she
      wouldn't have suspected at all, among which was their ability to
      outdo even wizards when it came to inventing concepts that were
      completely incomprehensible gibberish. Some things in those books
      had been like spells whose instructions couldn't be understood
      until you were already able to cast them; like those spells, they
      had been amazingly powerful, if only in a very abstract sense.
      Mathematical proofs about the viability of proving things
      mathematically had only been the tip of the iceberg.<br class="calibre4"/>
      The real challenge had been applying those concepts arithmantically
      and using them for spellcrafting. Luna had brooded over her desk
      for months on end, painstakingly advancing in miniscule steps, only
      interrupted by the periodical frustration of Hermione looking over
      her work, finding wrong sentences in seconds and cobbling together
      far more sensible replacements in minutes.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Finally, she had managed to gödelize Lumos in a way that allowed it
      to be embedded in another spell. At that point, she was far enough
      into the matter that even the word "gödelize" didn't seem inane
      anymore. It was absurd how much more quickly her mom had arrived at
      those conclusions, and without the help of a muggleborn who was
      also the most brilliant arithmancer in centuries.<br class="calibre4"/>
      The last few months had been spent in the preparation of adequate
      security measures. She had spent a lot of time unearthing the
      painful memories of her mother's death, dredging them for any hints
      on how to contain the strange creature that might or might not
      appear when she tried to actually cast the spell. She had had
      brainstorming sessions with anyone who knew anything about magical
      security, as well as some so-called experts who really
      didn't.<br class="calibre4"/>
      In the end, they had decided to employ the sixth degree of caution,
      used with the most dangerous experimental transfigurations.
      Additionally, they had made sure they could escape. There were no
      anti-apparation jinxes in effect and they had even put a Vanishing
      Cabinet in the room.<br class="calibre4"/>
      They had done everything they could, and tomorrow would be the big
      day.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna lay back in her bed, content and smiling.<br class="calibre4"/>
      And heard the faint sound of scratching in the walls.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">-~O~-</p>
      <p class="calibre7">Luna stood outside the golden oval, shivering with cold sweat
      and fear.<br class="calibre4"/>
      The picture depicted three pieces of fruit arranged on a silver
      platter, all of them rotten.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Three choices, yet none optimal."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Assent.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "You would have me take another path, then?" Luna wasn't sure she
      wanted that - the dream in the middle had seemed nice, with so many
      friends.<br class="calibre4"/>
      In answer, the golden oval flashed pictures of those friends, too
      fast for Luna to catch more than glimpses. Ron, sprawled on an old
      carpet, pale and dead. Harry, cradled in a crying Hagrid's arms.
      Then, Luna saw herself, locked in a dark basement, dirty and
      starving.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Oh. I would like to avoid all that, if possible."<br class="calibre4"/>
      The picture changed once again, to a silver sphere reflecting the
      world around it. Once again, there was something more than the
      obvious in the picture, and Luna knew that the sphere represented
      herself.<br class="calibre4"/>
      The sphere was now dented, and the world it reflected warped, as
      well. Luna understood immediately, and knew that this insight on
      perception applied to all individuals equally.<br class="calibre4"/>
      The picture began to move now, though all the details stayed in the
      same spot. The dent in the sphere slowly vanished, yet the
      reflection was warped still. With a start, Luna looked at the
      scenery around the sphere and realized that it had changed to
      accommodate the unchanging reflection.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Luna hesitated. It wasn't that she hadn't understood the message.
      It seemed clear enough that the sphere was meant to be her, and the
      sequence of pictures had implied the application of some power
      unknown to her to effect her will upon the world. Her friend had
      shown her that she could escape her situation in any way she
      desired, though she didn't know how, yet.<br class="calibre4"/>
      The question was now whether she should.<br class="calibre4"/>
      As with any hard question, she shouldn't even try to find an answer
      quickly. This was something which had to be deliberated over days
      at least. She willed herself awake.</p>
      <!--/main--></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
