<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Hysteresis - Hysteresis - JustMcShane - Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality [Archive of Our Own]</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Hysteresis"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4">
      <p class="calibre6">Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres tended to have a remarkable
      propensity for ending up in the most ridiculous, improbable
      situations, and this propensity was (of course) partially due to
      him actively seeking them out at every opportunity.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This current issue couldn't be exactly considered 'ridiculous',
      mostly because it was leaning dangerously close to 'out of hand'
      and maybe also 'terrifying'.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The issue on the table - or on the fourth floor-or-so of
      Hogwarts, literally speaking: Crowd Of Bullies, heavily armed
      (e.g., sixth years, wands at hand, and that's all the armament you
      need, really). Never a good thing, or <em class="calibre7">hardly ever</em> a good
      thing, maybe - he had never really considered the issue of 'is
      there, or can there be, ever a situation in which a crowd of
      heavily armed bullies facing you down with murder in their eyes is
      a good thing?', and there certainly wasn't enough time to put a
      decent amount of thought into it <em class="calibre7">now.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The battlefield: fourth floor-ish of Hogwarts (see above) in the
      confines of an empty hallway that led to a dead end. No windows. No
      way out except past them (and that wasn’t going to happen, was it
      now?).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The inventory: Half-crumpled, half-empty packet of chewing gum
      (currently in the process of being consumed whenever he remembered
      its existence). A completely non-functional Time Turner, unless he
      happened to currently be between the hours of 9 PM and midnight
      (which he wasn't). A Muggle analogue watch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The non-inventory, or however you referred to things that you
      <em class="calibre7">didn't</em> currently have in your possession: a wand. The
      Mokeskin Pouch. An explanation for why this was happening. A
      plan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">…although it was probably best to tack a hopeful-sounding 'yet'
      onto that last bit, because it was only seconds into this encounter
      so far and <em class="calibre7">really</em> who knew when a good plan would strike?
      (Sooner rather than later, hopefully.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It really didn't help that he was on the ground and prone and
      they also had all their wands pointed at him -</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One of the sixth-years said something that he couldn't quite
      catch, and then pain bloomed up within his chest like a flower,
      something dark and horrifying and full of crystal thorns. He
      screamed and screamed and writhed against the ground and felt the
      blood welling up and spilling down over the sides of his body, hot
      and dark and thick. And the other sixth-years laughed -</p>
      <p class="calibre8"><em class="calibre7">[freeze frame]</em></p>
      <p class="calibre9"><em class="calibre7">Okay, there's absolutely no way this can be
      real,</em> said Ravenclaw. <em class="calibre7">There's no such thing as pain</em>
      this <em class="calibre7">perfect. There's something wrong.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">And what do we know about physical pain?</em> This was
      Hufflepuff. <em class="calibre7">We're young and experienced and in some matters
      really startlingly NAÏVE when it all comes down to it -</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Hello there, split internal model of personality and
      conflicting opinions, I did miss you so.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">- ding-dong, you're wrong, we're the very opposite of naïve.
      I mean, just look at us!</em> Slytherin, ostensibly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I am looking at us,</em> said Hufflepuff. <em class="calibre7">We're being
      tortured brutally on the ground for something that's not even our
      fault. We're in agonizing pain. It's not looking good.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">We're going to die!</em> opined Gryffindor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Not helpful,</em> said Ravenclaw.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slytherin cleared its nonexistent throat. <em class="calibre7">So we're all in
      agreement that this is a messed-up magical hallucination of some
      sort, and we shouldn't be overtly concerned about our physical
      condition, since it seems to be, for lack of a better term, only
      skin-deep?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were various simulated noises of reluctant assent from
      everybody present, and then Gryffindor said, <em class="calibre7">well, yeah, but
      also it really</em> hurts <em class="calibre7">and I feel like that's something that
      we should be focusing on -</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ravenclaw performed the mental equivalent of slapping Gryffindor
      over the head with a newspaper. <em class="calibre7">We solve our way out of this,
      the pain stops! It's a simple enough cause-and-effect
      scenario.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Arguing with himself? At a time like this? If he had any more
      issues, he'd have to take out a subscription.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">So, how to stop this situation?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Simple enough. <em class="calibre7">Take out the enemy, whatever means
      necessary.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">And how to do that without a wand? -</p>
      <p class="calibre6"> - <em class="calibre7">wait a second. There's something wrong
      here.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">(I notice I am confused.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">…so what next?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre8"><em class="calibre7">[end freeze frame]</em></p>
      <p class="calibre9">- Harry was actually choking up blood at this
      point, which was just as unpleasant to think about as it was to
      experience, and he really wished he wasn't doing either at this
      current point in time (or <em class="calibre7">ever</em>, come to think of it). And
      it was honestly quite excruciatingly painful, too, no matter how
      much of this could probably be chalked up to <em class="calibre7">horrific magic
      hallucination.</em> He tried for a few solid seconds to think his
      way out of the pain - to remind himself that it wasn't real, it was
      all in his mind; but it seemed that his body didn't think that was
      much of a cohesive argument, and continued processing the
      excruciating pain just as if it were actually there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Come on come on come on. Think think think.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He managed to push himself up onto his elbows, squint through
      his cracked glasses enough so that he could see the forms of the
      five taller students more clearly, and some neurons in his brain
      that weren't currently dedicated to <em class="calibre7">OH UNBEARABLE AGONY</em>
      fired off some quick electrical impulses and drove him to one
      conclusion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aha," he gasped, "you're <em class="calibre7">not</em> sixth-years, are you?
      You're - you're not even Hogwarts students."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Give the traitor a gold star," said the ringleader.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Traitor-? - no, uhm, <em class="calibre7">ow,</em> never mind that, you're -
      you're - actually <em class="calibre7">no</em> that's important - oh no."
      Realization hit, and his eyes went wide. "<em class="calibre7">Death Eaters?</em>
      How did you-?" His eyes scanned them quickly, realized, <em class="calibre7">no, too
      young</em>, and he said, "no, not - not Death Eaters, you're -" He
      struggled to come up with an appropriate word for a long second,
      and then settled on, "<em class="calibre7">amateurs?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Because that's what they were, of course. Wizarding Neo-Nazis -
      probably only one or two years out of Hogwarts, looking to make
      trouble – make their name – prove themselves, somehow. Apparently
      this ‘somehow’ involved torturing the Boy-Who-Lived with
      unspeakable agony, and not much else. Within the Hogwarts wards, no
      less – stupid plan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And yet it was working.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How <em class="calibre7">dare you -</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wand raised again. Pavlovian animal response inside his brain
      squeaked and squealed and generally made a lot of ruckus about
      <em class="calibre7">likely incoming pain bad don't want that,</em> which prompted
      him to do something ridiculous and impulsive.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't!" he snapped, a lot weaker and a lot less ominous than he
      had intended it to be, and he held up a hand as sharply as he
      could, poising his fingers ready to snap them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And incredibly, they actually stopped. For a second, at
      least.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Oh good. We've got a plan?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Actually, nope,</em> Harry said, but only to himself.
      <em class="calibre7">This is a bluff. A clever bluff. A very clever bluff -</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">A part of him that was like a watered-down, more vague version
      of Ravenclaw (his brain was super fuzzy at the moment) decided to
      point out that, <em class="calibre7">threats are useless unless you actually have a
      way to follow through with them. Fun fact! You don't have a way to
      follow up on this. Even more fun fact! This can't possibly end
      well!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">There is but one course of action to take here,</em> intoned
      a badly-characterized Gryffindor. <em class="calibre7">And I say we go for it.
      What's the worst that can happen?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a brief silence within the confines of his brain as
      every other part of him processed the implications of this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Oh, come on. You're not nearly egotistical enough to think
      that you can</em> actually <em class="calibre7">control the whims of fate by
      clicking your fingers together,</em> went some currently
      unidentified part of his brain that was probably derived from
      Slytherin, and then it paused uncertainly<em class="calibre7">. Are you?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7"> I mean, not currently,</em> Harry thought. <em class="calibre7">It
      really does depend on how I'm feeling at the time. But as long as
      there's no other options -</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Are you saying that you're just going to snap your fingers
      and see what happens WITHOUT a plan? That doesn't seem very logical
      and rational to me!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Hey, I'm in excruciating mental and physical pain right now!
      Cut me a break!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">No,</em> said Probably-Slytherin sulkily. <em class="calibre7">I shan't. No
      breaks will be cut. Extreme pain is no excuse for irrational
      behaviour.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Listen, if I die/get hospitalized/lose my sanity/otherwise
      am terribly and irretrievably incapacitated here and now, it won't
      matter anyway! It's worth a shot!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Wait, maybe we want to preserve our reputation!</em> went
      Almost-Certainly-Slytherin. <em class="calibre7">If you snap your fingers, and
      nothing happens, and etcetera etcetera etcetera death, then this
      incident will go down in history as the one time our abilities
      failed us and our overwhelming air of mystique and otherworldliness
      will be torn down and irretrievably ruined and WE DON'T WANT THAT
      DO WE.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">This argument almost gave Harry pause. Almost.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Oh well. Nothing ventured, etc, etc -</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry raised his hand high, moving very carefully, aware of the
      uncontrollable tremor there -</p>
      <p class="calibre6">- and snapped his fingers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a moment of silence in the hallway, almost as if the
      nameless antagonists currently torturing him within an inch of his
      life were holding their breath collectively - as if they were
      actually wary that something might happen. And if Harry hadn't been
      currently wracked with shivers and convulsions, he might have been
      ridiculously pleased at the lengths at which his reputation had
      apparently preceded him, but as it happened, he was also
      metaphorically holding his breath, waiting for a Thing to happen.
      It didn't matter which Thing, especially - <em class="calibre7">any Thing will
      do,</em> and all that; he'd even have been content with Professor
      Snape walking into the hallway at this point, no matter how
      embarrassing that would be on so many levels.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everybody in the hallway continued holding their breath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And nothing happened, and it proceeded to happen until all of
      the people in the group currently holding the
      Boy-Who-Might-Not-Live-For-Very-Much-Longer-All-Things-Considered
      at wandpoint all relaxed and began laughing again, this time more
      awkwardly and directed at each other. <em class="calibre7">Ha ha, see, why were we
      all scared in the first place; it's just some kid snapping his
      fingers, how could we be so stupid to fall for that one,</em> and
      by doing so, they regained their bravado.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"See, nothing to worry about," said the tallest of them, turning
      back to Harry and raising his wand, apparently in preparation to
      cast yet another horrifying spell. "Now, let's see what -
      <em class="calibre7">why</em> are you smiling?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Which was a very good question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Despite the fact that he was slowly losing consciousness - could
      actually feel it swirling away from him like water down a drain -
      Harry was smiling. And he was doing so because of something that
      only he could perceive, which had started as a vague sensation of
      discomfort that was practically indistinguishable from the torture
      curses that had been laid upon him; and was now gradually growing
      stronger and stronger to the tune of a very specific John Williams
      tune. <em class="calibre7">Because, of course -</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Why are you laughing?</em> Do you think this is
      <em class="calibre7">funny?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">- if you can't create your own miracle, pure coincidence is
      fine.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Except there was absolutely no way that this could be anything
      but entirely intentional, because there was absolutely no way that
      Professor Quirrell would be in <em class="calibre7">this</em> corridor, at
      <em class="calibre7">this</em> very moment, coming in <em class="calibre7">this</em> direction for no
      reason at all; although he couldn't quite think of a way that he
      could know where to be. But that didn’t matter, not right now - he
      could figure it out later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had never been so glad to feel a wholly irrational sense of
      complete and utter doom welling up inside him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Aloud, he said, to the person who was about to curse him again,
      "I don't think you want to do that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yeah?" sneered the unnecessary interlocutor. "You're going
      to get up, wandless, and beat all of us up? Right here? Right
      <em class="calibre7">now</em>? You and which army?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Time seemed to freeze for a second because <em class="calibre7">oh my gosh he
      actually just said that could this be any more perfect</em> (and
      never mind that, yeah, it could actually be a lot more perfect if
      he wasn't being tortured and also if he wasn't in need of rescuing
      in the first place) but it was only a second, because that was
      precisely how long it took Harry, even the almost-unconscious state
      that he was in, to come up with quite literally the only comeback
      that he could have used in the current circumstances.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry paused, and then used the last of his strength to lever
      himself up the wall so that a) he could look his torturer right in
      the eyes for maximum impact and b) he could have a decent view of
      what was about to go down. He grinned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">This</em> one," he said, and like the gods of dramatic
      effect themselves had willed it, Professor Quirrell came sweeping
      around the corner, carrying along with him such an unbearable sense
      of <em class="calibre7">WRONG</em> that Harry had to actually fight back a wave of
      dizziness to remain properly conscious. Even through Harry’s
      cracked, fracture glasses, he could see it – Quirrell’s wand was
      out, his eyes were dark with… well, if not <em class="calibre7">rage,</em> something
      very close to it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Dooms Ex Machina,</em> some distant part of Harry's brain
      suggested, and was instantly grounded and stripped of all
      pun-making privileges for the rest of eternity.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hi, Professor," he managed, just before another wave of
      combined Doom and Unbearable Agony crashed over him, causing him to
      half-slip down from his propped-up position on the wall. His eyes
      fluttered shut, but through a combination of screaming <em class="calibre7">no no NO
      we can't miss this, it's going to be the coolest thing we've ever
      witnessed, we CAN'T</em> at himself and the pain keeping him aware
      and present (thank you, adrenaline and current lack of
      noradrenaline) he managed to stave off the blackness for a moment
      or two, although his eyes did remain closed for the time being.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That didn’t matter, really, because he could easily picture the
      cold expression on the Defence Professor's face, as well as the
      utterly disdainful glance that he was sending around to every other
      person in the hallway as he took in what was going on, before
      saying, "hello again, Mr Potter," as if Harry had just knocked on
      his office door to ask for advice on a particularly tough Defence
      charm. And then, to the other current residents of the hallway,
      "using Dark magic on a defenceless first year child, I see. How…
      <em class="calibre7">objectionable.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey," Harry gasped out, who personally objected to the use of
      'defenceless' as an adjective applied to him at all and any times,
      and was a bit annoyed too at the 'child' descriptor, come to think
      of it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…no offense intended, Mr Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Turn around and leave," suggested one of the people that were
      surrounding Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Oh, I don’t think so.” Professor Quirrell raised his wand, and
      his smile was sharp around the edges. "Shall we begin?" he
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was not a multiple-choice question, apparently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The next minute-or-so was a thing of absolute beauty, and it
      really was a shame that Harry was only partially-conscious for most
      of it. He caught various snippets of the action - flashes of bright
      light, the wannabe Death Eaters shouting indistinctly, Professor
      Quirrell's surprisingly cold, delighted laugh -</p>
      <p class="calibre6">- and the next thing Harry was aware of was a rather insistent
      voice with an undertone of something that might have almost been
      <em class="calibre7">concern</em> repeating his name over and over - "Mr Potter. Mr
      Potter, <em class="calibre7">wake up.</em> Mr <em class="calibre7">Potter</em>." A short pause, and
      then - with considerably more irritation, "Harry James
      Potter-Evans-Verres, open your eyes this instant, or I will not be
      held responsible for the consequences of your actions! Get. Up.
      <em class="calibre7">Now.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The use of his full name, or the sudden venom in his voice, or
      the strange and disproportionate threat - or some strange
      combination of the three - was enough for Harry to claw his way
      briefly out of the darkness and pry open his eyes, immediately
      wincing at the light and at the feeling of blood in his lungs and
      thorns wrapping around him (although he knew neither of those
      things were real). His glasses were whole and mended, although
      slipping down his nose a bit – but he could see clearly. Professor
      Quirrell was crouching at eye-level, a safe distance away from him,
      with one hand bracing him against the ground. He looked tense and
      ever so slightly exhausted - which was especially evident around
      his eyes -  but he didn't look as if he were in zombie mode,
      or anywhere near close to dropping around it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good," he said upon seeing Harry's return to alertness. "Now.
      Your belongings. Where are they?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It took him a long time before he could even consider responding
      to this. His attention drifted away from Professor Quirrell, and
      along the length of the corridor - and he saw the five not-students
      who had been tormenting him all-but splattered along the floor and
      walls and ceiling - or as close as you could get without there
      being any visible blood. The shortest of them was dangling from the
      ceiling, bound by invisible ropes, eyes closed and face bone-pale.
      The fingers of his right hand were twisted and contorted in ways
      that seemed impossible to look at. And that was just the
      <em class="calibre7">first</em> of them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Defence Professor's gaze was apparently following his,
      because he said, almost immediately, "idiots, all of them. No plan
      - no clear goal, no direction - and they didn't even put up that
      much of a fight. Pity." When Harry looked at him again, he was
      wearing a horrible little smile, and that sense of Doom had
      increased just a bit more. But then that smile disappeared
      (although the doom did not), and he said, "Mr Potter, where are
      your possessions? Your Time-Turner?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He tried to speak, but his throat was dry. He shook his head,
      angry at himself, and tried again. "The - blonde one. Took - took
      my pouch." Professor Quirrell was already moving; springing out of
      the crouch and rolling over the body of the person in question with
      a cursory kick, who was thoroughly bound in threads of some
      acid-blue substance that he didn't recognize. "I… I have the Time
      Turner. They, they didn't end up… end up - taking it -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His mokeskin pouch, newly liberated, came sailing in his
      direction, and he couldn't keep control of his hands long enough to
      catch it, but that didn't matter because Professor Quirrell's aim
      was good enough, apparently, that it landed neatly in his lap.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Take out your Invisibility Cloak, Mr Potter. And your
      Time-Turner."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do NOT argue."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To him, his hands appeared to be sliced open; lacerated back and
      forth over and over again. Intellectually, he knew that it wasn't
      real, but he couldn't help from gasping and wincing a bit as he
      muttered, "Cloak of Invisibility," and retrieved it from the pouch.
      He managed to free the Time-Turner from where it was trapped under
      his robes by falling against the wall and kind of wiggling it
      out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell had his wand out again and was pacing angrily
      by the time Harry was finished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Put the Cloak on," he directed, instantly, "and hold the
      Time-Turner out, as still as you can."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He managed to get the Cloak over his shoulders by pure chance,
      but holding a fist-sized object steady proved beyond his current
      motor control. He resorted to trapping it between his arm and his
      knee, which Professor Quirrell seemed to find adequate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now," he said, and levelled his wand right at Harry, who felt a
      wave of inexplicable terror and WRONG WRONG WRONG wash over him
      before he realized that the Defence Professor was aiming at the
      object in his hands rather than the person holding it - although
      that only dulled the sensation ever-so-slightly. "There are only a
      small number of things you will need to remember. One, get to my
      office as quickly as possible. Two, <em class="calibre7">do not be seen.</em> Three
      -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor raised his non-wand arm suddenly, and Harry saw
      that for whatever reason, he appeared to be wearing Harry's own
      wristwatch, which also happened to be on <em class="calibre7">his</em> wrist right
      now. Which could only mean…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"- I must arrive in this hallway at precisely one thirty-six PM;
      do <em class="calibre7">not</em> forget to tell me that - and give me this before I
      leave." He tapped the duplicate wristwatch with one finger, and
      then twitched his wand upwards, ever so slightly. Harry felt the
      inside of the Time-Turner shift in its protective shell, beginning
      to rotate backwards, and for a moment, all he could consider was,
      <em class="calibre7">why didn't I think of that,</em> but then his brain fully
      caught up to what was happening and he realized the full
      implications of what had just happened and what he had just managed
      to avoid, and -</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," Harry whispered, and for a split-second, Professor
      Quirrell paused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No thanks are necessary," he replied, and then the world
      dissolved into light and flashing colors.</p>
      <hr class="calibre10"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The trip across the castle – invisible, disorientated and
      shaking – was more than just arduous; it was completely exhausting,
      both mentally and physically. So Harry didn't so much knock on
      Professor Quirrell's door as fall over onto it heavily, hands
      colliding with wood with a <em class="calibre7">thump</em> before he slid painfully
      to the ground. That <em class="calibre7">thump</em> gained an almost immediate
      response in the form of the Defence Professor saying, "Mr Potter, I
      am <em class="calibre7">not</em> in any mood to -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then his words abruptly cut off, and the sound of
      uncharacteristically hurried footsteps could be heard. Seconds
      later, the door to his office was all but wrenched open, and Harry
      raised his head, pulling down the hood of the Invisibility Cloak,
      to meet the dark, terrifying, but genuinely shocked gaze of
      Professor Quirrell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er," he managed, fully aware of how exhausted he must look and
      of the tear-streaks still on his face, and of the constant,
      never-ending <em class="calibre7">pain -</em> and he had next to no idea how to open
      up this conversation, anyway -</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">In,"</em> Professor Quirrell demanded, throwing open the
      door fully, and stepping out into the corridor to glance back and
      forth and let him through. "In, <em class="calibre7">now;</em> take off your Cloak -
      <em class="calibre7">tell me what happened,</em> Mr Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry basically had to crawl past Professor Quirrell to get into
      his office, which was as painful as it was humiliating, and he
      ended up just laying against the wall, panting, Cloak still
      half-around his shoulders. Professor Quirrell shut the door, locked
      it, and then swung around to face him. "Talk," he demanded. He
      sounded angry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head, gritting his teeth as he rode out another
      wave of agony, and then said, very quickly, "one thirty-six, fourth
      floor, far west corridor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell eyed him, and then said, "I'm not sure I
      quite understand. Are you saying -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I - I'm, I can't -" Harry nearly slammed his fist against the
      floor in frustration, but couldn't quite manage even that. "Time.
      It's - it's, time, you've got to - got to -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To be clear," he said, voice steady and smooth, "something in
      particular happens at one thirty-six in the far west corridor of
      the fourth floor that I must be there to witness. And either you
      have been coerced into delivering this message to me after being
      brutally tortured, and thus I must be on my guard when I do show up
      there; or you have already witnessed those events and this message
      is being delivered for the sake of the time continuum in general.
      One tap for the first, two for the second," he added, almost as an
      afterthought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knocked his hand against the wall twice, ridiculously
      grateful that the person involved in this mess was also the one
      person who could be practically guaranteed to be on Harry's
      near-exact wavelength at most times.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I'm responsible for you escaping whatever it is, and your
      consequent arrival at my office - one for yes, two for no."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One knock, then Harry recalled something, and pried off his
      wristwatch with shaky hands. He tossed it roughly in the
      Professor's direction, and it skittered and slid on the floor.
      “Take it,” he rasped. “You need, need to –”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell didn’t argue, thankfully. He scooped up the
      watch, clicked it into place around his wrist with a faint little
      quirk of his mouth – <em class="calibre7">Muggle inventions, how amusing,</em> or
      something like that maybe – and said, “in order to arrive in the
      fourth-floor corridor on time, I shall have to leave immediately.
      Please answer honestly, Mr Potter. Are you in any immediate danger
      currently – physical or otherwise?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I’m in lots of pain, definitely, but – nobody knows I’m
      here, so…</em> Harry rapped on the floor twice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Can I safely leave you here for however long it takes me to
      accomplish my task?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One knock on the floor, but then he felt compelled to add, “you
      – might be a, a, good idea to – lock. Lock the door.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Be silent,” said Professor Quirrell sharply. “Idiot boy, do not
      tax yourself any more than is necessary.” A pause, an intake of
      breath. “And I had intended to, anyway.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Of course you did. What was I thinking –</em> one knock on
      the floor, and then he clumsily signed ‘sorry’, swirling it
      awkwardly over his chest; knowing that even if the exact
      translation didn’t go across, the vague meaning would be there.
       </p>
      <p class="calibre6">The noise that Professor Quirrell made in response to this could
      have easily been described as ‘irritated’ or even verging on the
      edge of ‘infuriated’, but to say that would have been to discount
      the edge of something else that was there – something far more
      complicated and impossible to describe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Is there anything else that I need to know, or anything vitally
      important that you must communicate with me?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Well, I haven’t discussed the innate possibilities of – no.
      No, stop that. Now’s not the time.</em> Two knocks. More or
      less.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Then I will depart,” Professor Quirrell said, rising up to his
      full height. “I will return soon, hopefully with a better grasp of
      whatever has been done to you. Please do not leave this room.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry carefully managed to roll his eyes, and tapped once on the
      wall, pointedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“…yes, all right. Point taken.” Professor Quirrell paused, one
      hand on the doorhandle, and then drew his wand. With one quick
      swirl, the carpet that Harry was currently half-lying on neatly
      extracted itself from under the Professor’s desk, and curled up at
      the edge, sweeping him up. Before he could blink, he had been
      deposited onto the chair that Professor Quirrell usually sat at.
      The carpet shuffled itself back into place. “Better?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The chair was high-backed and comfortable; with armrests he
      could prop himself up on, not-quite-as-difficult-as-expected, as he
      knocked once on the desk. It was obvious that it was the sort of
      chair that was made to be slumped in, and it wasn’t hard to work
      out why.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Splendid,” said Professor Quirrell, although his tone didn’t
      indicate that he actually thought it was anything of the sort, and
      he turned once more. This time, as he exited through his office
      door – closing it behind him with a firm <em class="calibre7">click</em> - he didn’t
      look back once.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Strangely reassured by this, Harry let his head fall back and
      his eyes close. He could already feel his body deciding to shut
      down and force him into sleep, and for the first time, he didn’t
      fight it at all. He rather deserved a rest, he thought, and it
      wasn’t as if he needed to be worried about his wannabe torturers
      coming after him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was an absolute certainty that Professor Quirrell would take
      care of them – after all, it had already happened.</p>
      <hr class="calibre10"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was woken abruptly by a feeling of horror and doom that
      was far too close to him for the primal animal part of his brain to
      feel safe sleeping around. On pure instinct, he tried to sit up
      (tried being the operative word) and scanned the room around him,
      trying to sort out what was going on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was in the Hospital Wing. From the moonlight streaming in
      through the window right next to him, it seemed to be rather late
      at night. There were no other students in the beds around him; nor
      was there anybody seated in the visiting chairs. All of his
      possessions were on the bedside table, along with a
      conveniently-placed glass of water.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It took him entirely too long to notice that the figure leaning
      against the wall opposite him was there at all, and another few
      seconds to work out who it even was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Oh. Um,” Harry said, voice rasping slightly. “Hi, Professor
      Quirrell.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Good evening, Mr Potter.” The Professor’s voice was
      calculatedly low and soft. Unnaturally so. “Before I say anything
      else – I must confess that I did, in fact, enter this room with the
      express intention of disturbing your rest. I leave the matter of
      whether I should apologize for this or not entirely up to you.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry’s brain took a moment or two to catch up to this as well.
      “I –” He cleared his throat, and then reached over for the glass of
      water. “– well, it really depends. Why are you here?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“My motivations were half-selfish, half entirely
      altruistic.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry laughed, a bit. He couldn’t help himself. “Altruistic?
      <em class="calibre7">You?</em>”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell’s lips twisted upwards into a
      self-deprecating half-smirk. “Yes, I know. Dear me. I must be
      slipping.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled too, and managed to get himself into enough of an
      upright position that he could see his teacher more or less
      eye-to-eye. “All right. Selfish reasons first – if you feel like
      sharing?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Of course. I wished to see how you were recovering from your
      ordeal – and to pass on the message that the offenders behind it
      have been detained and are in the process of being brought to
      justice. The Headmaster’s words, not mine.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry narrowed his eyes. “That… doesn’t sound very selfish at
      all.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“On the contrary. The reason I am checking in on you is only to
      ascertain the degree to which my lesson plans will be thrown astray
      due to this incident. At the moment, I am pleased to note that I
      will not have to make very many changes at all – and the passing-on
      of the Headmaster’s message was merely an obligation.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Right. Yeah. Of course.” <em class="calibre7">That hurts a bit, but it’s
      entirely in-character, so.</em> “And… the altruistic motive?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“An apology.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“An – apology?” he asked, not entirely sure if he was hearing
      him correctly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“In a way.” The Defence Professor’s gaze shifted away, became
      directed away from him and at the ceiling, instead. “Please do not
      ask what for. You do not know, and – all things considered – I
      sincerely hope you never find out.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry swallowed the instant surge of curiosity that this
      revelation brought on, and just nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“‘Actions speak louder than words’ is the phrase, I believe,”
      said Professor Quirrell, and – so saying – raised his wand,
      performing a familiar yet completely incomprehensible
      incantation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry’s mouth just about dropped open as the Hospital Wing
      vanished around them. He was still in bed, yes, and the Defence
      Professor was still propping himself up against the far wall;
      but</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“No, you’re –” he began, objecting before he could stop himself.
      “ – <em class="calibre7">you just fought off like ten Death Eaters for me; there’s
      no way you’re well enough for this –</em>”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Incredibly, Professor Quirrell was laughing. “That was quite
      some time ago, Mr Potter,” he said. “I think you’ll find that
      you’ve been unconscious longer than you’ve expected. Do not waste
      your time worrying about me.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sunk back into the bed, exhaling silently as he stared
      upwards. The sky bled starlight for him – for both of them, and
      them only. The clearness of the apparent night was so very far
      removed from any light pollution at all. The universe was lay bare
      before him for one of very few times in his life, and – as always –
      he could do nothing but stare.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Thank you,” he said, quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell sat, cross-legged, on the ground, and gazed
      upwards; and merely hummed in the affirmative.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They sat there in the darkness – amidst the stars and galaxies –
      for nearly half an hour before Harry’s eyelids began to droop and
      he had to prop himself up to keep himself from dropping off. It was
      barely working. He was simply too exhausted still – and it was far
      too late at night – for him to stay awake any long, no matter how
      much he wanted to do so.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was an odd sort of smile in Professor Quirrell’s voice
      when he spoke. “Sleep, if you wish,” he said. “I promise I won’t be
      offended. Merlin knows you need it.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“But –” said Harry, and he wasn’t really sure how he intended to
      finish that sentence, but it didn’t matter, because Professor
      Quirrell just shook his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Sleep, Mr Potter,” he said. “There is a time to argue, and this
      is not it. I will recast the spell later if necessary.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry lay back and looked at the stars and though that he hadn’t
      seen anything more beautiful in his life. And Professor Quirrell
      felt like doom and the death of a thousand dying suns, and he was
      sitting only meters away; but – irrationally – his presence was a
      comfort. And so was the presence of the universe, so close to him
      that he might be able to reach out and touch it if he tried –
      although of course he never would.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With this in mind –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">– it was only minutes before Harry slept, and he did so soundly
      and deeply, as the silent stars hung around him like scattered
      dreams.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
