<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>22. Proximity - Proximity Chapter 1: Part 1, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="22. Proximity"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">A piercing cry split the night, echoing from the rooftops of
      Hogwarts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The approaching creature trailed fire as it flew, shedding
      golden flames like sparks from its feathers as the mighty wings
      beat and beat again. Even as it swooped up in a great curve to
      hover a few paces away from Harry, even as the flames surrounding
      its passage diminished, the creature seemed no dimmer, no less
      bright; as though some unseen Sun shone upon it and illuminated
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Great shining wings red like a sunset, and eyes like
      incandescent pearls, blazing with golden fire and
      determination.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The phoenix's beak opened, and let out a great caw that Harry
      understood as though it had been a spoken word:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">COME!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not even realising, the boy stumbled back from the edge of the
      rooftop, eyes still locked on the phoenix, his whole body trembling
      and tensed, his fists clutching and releasing at his side; stepping
      back, stepping away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The phoenix cawed again, a desperate, pleading sound. It didn't
      come through in words, this time, but it came through in feelings,
      an echo of everything that Harry had ever felt about Azkaban and
      every temptation to <em class="calibre7">action</em>, to just <em class="calibre7">do</em> something
      about it, the desperate need to do something <em class="calibre7">now</em> and not
      delay any longer, all spoken in the cry of a bird.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Let's go. It's time.</em> The voice that spoke came from
      inside Harry, not from the phoenix; from so deep inside it couldn't
      be given a separate name like 'Gryffindor'.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All he had to do was step forward and touch the phoenix's
      talons, and it would take him where he needed to be, where he kept
      thinking he ought to be, down into the central pit of Azkaban.
      Harry could see the image in his mind, shining with unbearable
      clarity, the image of himself suddenly smiling with joyous release
      as he threw all his fears away and <em class="calibre7">chose</em> —</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I —" Harry whispered, not even aware of what he was saying.
      Harry lifted his shaking hands to wipe at his eyes from which tears
      had sprung, as the phoenix hovered before him with great
      wing-sweeps. "But I — there's other people I also have to save,
      other things I have to do —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The fire-bird let out a piercing scream, and the boy flinched
      back as though from a blow. It wasn't a command, it wasn't an
      objection, it was the <em class="calibre7">knowledge</em> —</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The corridors lit by dim orange light.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It felt like a tightening compulsion in Harry's chest, the
      desire to just <em class="calibre7">do</em> it and get it over with. He might die,
      but if he didn't die he could feel <em class="calibre7">clean</em> again. Have
      principles that were more than excuses for inaction. It was
      <em class="calibre7">his</em> life. His to spend, if he chose.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I could do it any time I wanted… …if I wasn't a good
      —</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Go.</em>"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter yelped aloud as he turned from the phoenix,
      <em class="calibre7">his</em> phoenix, to see the interloper. Albus Dumbledore stood
      behind him, tears glistening on his cheeks as he met the boy's
      eyes. Fawkes, on Albus's shoulder, had broken his gaze at the other
      bird to narrow his eyes at his master when he spoke.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">What?</em>" Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus hesitated before speaking again, taking care not to glance
      at Fawkes. Already he was aghast at his own rashness. This choice
      above all choices should have been Harry's own. The phoenix was
      certainly here to take Harry to Azkaban, and there would indeed be
      chaos if Harry accomplished his goal there. And that was to say
      nothing of the terrible risk it would be for Harry Potter to accept
      his phoenix's charge; Harry's mission might or might not be as
      dangerous as was typical — would the annihilation of a hundred and
      five Dementors have a three-quarters chance of killing him, when
      destroying his first had come so effortlessly? — but it was a
      danger, or else the phoenix would not have come. And the safety of
      the Boy-Who-Lived was paramount.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But there was more than one kind of safety.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From the beginning, Harry's first year had gone nothing like
      Dumbledore had expected. When the Sorting Hat had cried
      "<em class="calibre7">SLYTHERIN!</em>" from atop Harry's head, Dumbledore had very
      nearly broken his perfect record of smiling for the Sorting of
      every First-Year student during his tenure. And although that had
      turned out all right in the end, the false Sorting was a portent
      for the year since then, for the Boy-Who-Lived himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While Dumbledore had anticipated Harry Potter's being a horcrux
      ever since that momentous night, the last Halloween in Britain to
      be known foremost as Halloween, he'd had no idea what effect it
      would have on the boy's psyche and personality. But Arabella had
      consistently reported that he was a normal child, if a bit fuller
      of Muggle nonsense than she expected, and so Dumbledore had planned
      for this year — the standard Wizardborn acceptance letter,
      Minerva's introducing him and his family to magic, his even
      quirkier than usual Sorting speech — expecting to gain Harry's
      confidence, take him under his wing, and then eventually, over the
      course of his Hogwarts career, ready him for his destined and
      foreseen quest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But his planning had been for naught, for Voldemort had returned
      already, and Harry was <em class="calibre7">not</em> a normal child. The fragment of
      Voldemort's soul within Harry did not merely connect him to the
      Dark Lord's mind as Dumbledore had hoped, but manifested in Harry's
      own thoughts and actions. It had not been an eleven-year-old boy
      who had blackmailed Albus into curtailing Snape's act. In January,
      when the world had almost lost its only hope to a Dementor, Harry
      had briefly <em class="calibre7">become</em> Voldemort. And just that day in the
      Wizengamot, Harry had all too easily assumed his Dark persona and
      faced down Lucius Malfoy, trying to <em class="calibre7">convince him</em> that he
      was the Dark Lord.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Dark Lord blackmailed the Headmaster; the Boy-Who-Lived
      protected his classmates.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Dark Lord was brought forth by a Dementor; the Boy-Who-Lived
      destroyed it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Dark Lord confronted his former lieutenant; the
      Boy-Who-Lived saved his best friend's life.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Harry Potter faced the real, resurrected Voldemort, who
      would Voldemort find before him? Would Harry be able to coöpt his
      Dark side to do good, as he had done before? What voice, either
      within him or outside him, would he listen to in that crucial
      moment?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It wouldn't be Albus's, that was abundantly clear; there was no
      trust there, thanks to the combined influences of the Defence
      Professor and the horcrux within Harry. And in any case, they
      didn't speak quite the same language. Harry did love and trust
      Minerva, but he didn't respect her as he did his mentor, the
      Defence Professor. There was one language, however, that Albus knew
      Harry could understand keenly, one voice that he knew Harry
      listened to. Indeed, Harry listened to it <em class="calibre7">too</em> well. But
      that voice might someday be all there was to pull Harry from
      Darkness, and Albus would not always be there to provide it for
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was more than one kind of safety, and there was no point
      in keeping Harry Potter's body safe if he did not first keep safe
      the soul of the Boy-Who-Lived.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is your own choice, Harry," he said hoarsely. "But for my
      part… …I say go. Go, and return."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stared at Dumbledore for a moment longer, then turned away
      to face the phoenix. He needed to <em class="calibre7">think</em>, to process all
      this in his constituent parts, but that deep, insistent inner voice
      was the only part of him that was responsive; the rest, if he
      strained to discern them, were just using Harry's eyes to stare
      slack-jawed at the new phoenix.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Some help here?</em> Harry thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gryffindor snapped out of his reverie first, and immediately
      launched into a tirade. <em class="calibre7">GO what are you waiting for you don't
      have all night WELL YOU DON'T KNOW THAT YOU DO EITHER</em> JUST GO
      ALREADY YOU KNOW THE ANSWER —</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Guys, I really need some opinions of a different colour
      right now,</em> Harry thought at the others as Gryffindor
      continued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slytherin took a moment to collect himself, then observed:
      <em class="calibre7">Dumbledore's telling you to do something would not have been a
      point in that thing's favour before now.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">It wouldn't necessarily have been against it, either,</em>
      said Hufflepuff.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">We do seem to have trouble with Dumbledore,</em> Ravenclaw
      said absentmindedly. <em class="calibre7">Didn't you get sidetracked from that topic
      this afternoon?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Well there's no time for that right now,</em> thought Harry,
      <em class="calibre7">there's a pressing matter and we need a decision that's
      actually based on brains.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Everyone here is biased towards our going,</em> said
      Slytherin. <em class="calibre7">Dumbledore, Gryffindor, Fawkes. Weren't you already
      thinking that we should stay when Dumbledore interrupted
      you?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Dumbledore let you let the Malfoy family bankrupt you today,
      specifically to</em> keep <em class="calibre7">you from this quest,</em> said
      Ravenclaw. <em class="calibre7">And now he's biased towards our going? He must have
      a really good reason to do a 180° like this.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Yeah, there's a phoenix now!</em> said Slytherin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Hasn't Dumbledore's advice to us been about how you</em>
      shouldn't <em class="calibre7">always act upon the voice of the phoenix?</em> said
      Hufflepuff. <em class="calibre7">And he's</em> still <em class="calibre7">saying we should
      go.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Dumbledore also might want us to go so we can die
      trying.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Then why didn't he let us go earlier?</em> Hufflepuff
      objected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Because now the loss of Azkaban won't look like his own
      fault for not stopping us.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">This is getting us nowhere,</em> said Ravenclaw. <em class="calibre7">Should
      we just ignore Dumbledore altogether and go back to our original
      train of thought?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">A fine idea,</em> said Slytherin, <em class="calibre7">so we st —</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gryffindor suddenly stopped his background badgering and
      declaimed, <em class="calibre7">This might be your last opportunity.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">What?</em> thought Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The situation at Hogwarts is getting serious,</em> said
      Gryffindor solemnly. <em class="calibre7">You lost Draco this weekend, and almost
      Hermione as well. You don't know who you may lose next. If somehow
      you lose Dumbledore, you lose Fawkes. If you lose Fawkes, you lose
      access to Azkaban and your ability to complete this quest in the
      foreseeable future. And that's if</em> you <em class="calibre7">survive long enough
      to try.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's breathing quickened. <em class="calibre7">Before Dumbledore spoke
      up,</em> he thought, <em class="calibre7">I was about to ask the phoenix to come
      back in a few months.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Would it have listened?</em> Gryffindor said simply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just then, the new phoenix cawed once more. A feeling of
      urgency, of warning, of time running out — and not about the
      prisoners in Azkaban, but about the beings on this roof, this very
      situation. He needed to make a decision <em class="calibre7">now</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At that moment, with three manifestations of Gryffindor
      influencing him, all Harry's goals were reduced to binary digits in
      his mind's eye. He had three quests of the utmost importance: the
      first and most important, the elimination of Death; the second, the
      fight against the malevolent forces inside Hogwarts; the third, the
      destruction of Azkaban's Dementors. The first was the longest-term,
      the least certain of success, and probably the least dangerous. For
      the other two, the possibilities were that he could complete
      neither of them, one of them, or both of them. He might die in the
      attempt of either and succeed. He might die in the attempt of the
      winning his war and fail. But he was almost certain that he
      wouldn't die in the attempt of harrowing Azkaban and yet fail; if
      he attempted it, success was almost guaranteed, even if he did die.
      So the only way to guarantee the success of either was to attempt
      Azkaban before it was too late.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">And what about Hermione and all my other friends?</em> Harry
      asked himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">So far, it seems as though they're only in danger</em>
      because <em class="calibre7">they're your friends,</em> said Ravenclaw. <em class="calibre7">Our
      dying in Azkaban is probably as efficient a way as any to get the
      targets off their backs.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took a deep breath, then set his jaw. He knew that he was
      letting Gryffindor get the last word, that he was letting his heart
      get ahead of his brain. But an earlier thought about a similar
      situation came back to him:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Human beings can't live like that.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took one more breath, then reached out, grasped the
      phoenix's talon, and disappeared in a flash of flame.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"And so it was done," whispered Dumbledore. "So it was done." He
      wiped his face, steadied himself, then he, too, flashed and
      disappeared.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
