<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>22. Proximity - Proximity Chapter 3: Part 3, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="22. Proximity"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s3" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 3</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">The Defence Professor let the door to his quarters swing shut
      after returning from his visits with the Weasley twins and Granger.
      The former visit had been far more fruitful than the latter, though
      the latter at least still meant an end to an annoying distraction.
      He regretted the necessity of what came next for the obstinate
      girl, but her exasperating, dangerous combination of naivety and
      cleverness would not allow him to protect both her and himself.
      <em class="calibre7">If</em> —</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A sharp change in the boy's mood up above. He was suddenly
      <em class="calibre7">very</em> alert, and tense. The Defence Professor furrowed his
      brow, and willed his amazing, <em class="calibre7">incredibly dangerous</em> new
      device to appear before him, as he spoke:
      "IsolemnlyswearthatIamuptonogood." He felt a twinge of annoyance at
      the incantation; the act of assuming four Gryffindors' ignorant
      perception of "good" was distasteful, no matter how perfunctory the
      act or how ironic the perception.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The foolish pronouncement of the map creators' identities
      dissolved from the parchment. The ink quickly flitted about the
      page, rearranging itself to depict the first sub-level of the
      castle Hogwarts. At the centre of the map he saw the dot
      representing himself, captioned with a line of indecipherable
      markings; 'QUI' was legible on the left, and 'ELL' on the right,
      with gibberish in the middle where several names were printed over
      one another. He was lucky that his original name was his shortest,
      and his present one his longest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He willed the parchment to zip out to arm's length, where he
      could see the top of the astronomy tower, and then moved it toward
      himself a small bit so the Ravenclaw tower came into focus. There
      were four dots on the tower, standing in pairs. Dumbledore and
      Fawkes were to the south. And to the northwest stood Harry Potter
      and someone Hogwarts did not know, labeled only with a question
      mark, next to which appeared a pawprint symbol — <em class="calibre7">ah, so a</em>
      magical creature <em class="calibre7">Hogwarts does not know. What could</em> —</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Oh. Oh, Merlin,</em> no.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If Dumbledore's acquiring Fawkes was a typical example, the way
      one acquired a phoenix was to choose to embark upon a dangerous
      mission where you intended to act alone against "Darkness". And the
      Defence Professor knew exactly what mission the boy would have in
      mind — he even agreed with the "Dark" assessment. The phoenix would
      take him to Azkaban, and Dumbledore would follow him, and the boy
      would cast his unique Patronus, and the Aurors would be alerted the
      same way they had been alerted in February, and Dumbledore would
      see the connection between the two events with his own eyes, and
      then Dumbledore would question the fool boy, who would no longer
      need to fear for his mentor's life —</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The whole chain of events wasn't a certainty. But the one thing
      he could not risk in his current state was a direct confrontation
      with Dumbledore; it was clearly time to take precautionary
      measures. So the Defence Professor of Hogwarts, still Disillusioned
      from his walk through the castle, caught the door in mid-swing,
      grabbed the map and so Disillusioned it, stepped out into the
      corridor, levitated himself with a thought, and flew through the
      castle toward the entrance, all while staring at the map with
      barely a blink.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He tried sending an impulse to deny the phoenix, to postpone his
      mission, to take the safe option, but he had always failed at such
      attempts to influence the boy. And just as he reached the corridor
      to the Entrance Hall, the first part of the Defence Professor's
      suppositions were confirmed: Harry Potter and the new phoenix
      disappeared from the Ravenclaw tower, and he could feel that the
      boy was now many miles to the east. Within twenty seconds,
      Dumbledore and Fawkes disappeared as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At the Defence Professor's touch, the front gate unlocked and
      opened wide enough to admit a person, then shut and locked behind
      him as he flew across the grounds toward the Hogsmeade road. He
      felt the boy start to faint, and thought for a moment that his
      death might then be the best possible outcome, but not long after
      that he felt his recovery and subsequent surge of triumph.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He reached the start of the Hogsmeade road, which was the edge
      of the Hogwarts wards, willed one of the Portkeys out of his
      mokeskin pouch, grabbed it with one hand, and broke it with a
      thought. Then he sat down against the nearest tree in that
      unremarkable section of Norwegian forest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Defence Professor knew what his next move was, should he be
      forced to abandon his original plan; it had been calculated years
      ago. It was <em class="calibre7">not</em> ideal, and it would make his next few
      months far more difficult than they would have been, but it was
      accounted for, and so there was no need to plan or calculate
      avenues of action; he needed only to find out which ones were
      necessary. So he continued staring at the map, which again showed
      Hogwarts's first basement level.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Less than half an hour later, Dumbledore and Fawkes appeared at
      a corridor a good distance from his quarters. A small hesitation,
      and they reappeared just outside his door. Another hesitation, and
      they reappeared inside his bedroom. The parchment floated out to
      where he could see the third-year Gryffindor boys' quarters. Where
      Dumbledore and Fawkes then appeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The former Defence Professor of Hogwarts let the parchment fall
      to the ground and took a deep breath. Part of him, a part that was
      as weak as he had wanted the world to believe Lord Voldemort had
      been, yearned to destroy something, to unleash a burst of
      destructive magic, to level and burn a vast swath of forest with a
      thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But he was not that weak. He was in control. He was the master
      of his destiny, which was to save himself and the world from its
      great enemy. No one would take up his wand if he laid it down, and
      he, the saviour of all humanity, would <em class="calibre7">not</em> be beholden to
      such useless and extraneous instincts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He thought of Harry Potter, then. A boy with limitless potential
      — as limitless as his own, for he had imparted it to him. A boy who
      could rise to defeat him, or to conquer for him. A boy he could not
      touch, figuratively or literally. He did not feel fondness at all,
      so he did not feel fondness for Harry Potter, and yet he did feel a
      <em class="calibre7">kinship</em> with him. The boy's mind was partly his own, and
      he had thought that meant Harry Potter could have grown into
      something like a true peer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But that was folly after all. The boy's mind was
      <em class="calibre7">dilute</em>. He had spent too much time among Muggles, and
      would never grow to employ the proper criteria when making
      decisions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And so tomorrow the world's <em class="calibre7">true</em> saviour would have to
      start from scratch, with a new plan and a new body. It was time to
      rest, to let the remnant of his host's consciousness return to the
      fore for a final time, and so maintain the body's life for one more
      day. As he started to drift away, he allowed himself one moment to
      partake in vain regret: <em class="calibre7">Merlin</em> damn <em class="calibre7">it, I was</em> so
      close.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a bitter, bitter voice that whispered "Mischief
      <em class="calibre7">managed,</em>" and then the body of Quirinus Quirrell collapsed
      in torpor.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
