<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>26. HPMoRCh 89 AU - HPMoRCh 89 AU:, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="26. HPMoRCh 89 AU"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">The swirling cacophany of pain and despair slowly faded into a
      warm, white mist.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She awoke slowly and blinked, trying to take in her
      surroundings. At first it seemed that she was surrounded on all
      sides by a brilliant, featureless whiteness, but that gradually
      faded into a small, quiet glade, surrounded by elm trees. A small
      brook flowed quietly past her, with reeds and wildflowers swaying
      gently in a breeze she couldn't quite feel. Everything was eerily
      familiar, and yet brighter and paler than she expected it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was some time before she realized that she was naked, which
      struck her as not at all proper. Almost immediately, she noticed a
      small flower-print dress folded neatly on the grass in front of
      her. As she put it on, a slow realization was creeping up the back
      of her mind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She had spent a summer walking the banks of this very stream,
      when she was small. This dress was the very dress she had ruined
      climbing its banks, re-sized to fit her - her favorite dress, a
      gift from an Aunt who she had never known very well. A little
      south, and she would come to a place where she could cross the
      stream, into the wilder woods that she had always longed to
      explore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A pair of eyes were staring at her from the river.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She stepped forward, and was somehow not astonished to see a
      small, silvery otter, sitting up and looking patiently at her. It
      chittered sharply, and she very distinctly understood that she was
      to follow it downstream, into the wild woods.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She frowned and thought for a moment. What was she missing? She
      looked down and noticed her own feet, toes dipped into the lapping
      water. Below the thighs, her legs were the same silvery-white as
      the otter's pelt... there was something she couldn't remember about
      her legs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There had been a roar, and a horrible crunching noise, and more
      pain than she had ever known was possible. And... something had
      happened, and she was so scared... and then Harry had showed up to
      save her. The otter looked up at her, expectantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She smiled sadly at it, and sat down on a large rock at the edge
      of the stream. The woods beyond stretched out before her, quiet and
      bright and welcoming.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She reached down and picked up the large book that had quietly
      materialized beside her rock.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "I'm sorry, I won't go with you. I'm going to wait here for Harry."
      She opened the book across her lap, and quite contentedly began to
      read.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
