<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2 - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 42: Surprise, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s10" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 42: Surprise</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Saturday</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">High inside Hogwarts a boy with a lightning shaped scar on his
      forehead sat on his desk, looking out the window across the
      landscape instead of working.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It wasn't the highest point view from inside the castle. He'd
      spent a full day last October trying to determine where the
      castle's highest point was. Finding his effort frustrated at every
      third turn - literally frustrated by staircases with several
      non-existent but visible steps that he'd nearly fallen through, and
      strong gusts of wind that shoved him ruthlessly but harmlessly back
      down - the boy decided to merely <em class="calibre7">assume</em> that a highest
      point in Hogwarts existed and gave up trying to find it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mathematically, this should be obvious. Every structure had a
      highest point (or points).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But <em class="calibre7">this</em> boy had encountered enough violations of
      supposedly axiomatic laws that he wasn't entirely convinced that
      <em class="calibre7">two plus two equaled four</em> everywhere in the wizarding
      world, much less Fermat's theorem of stationary points. Harry
      Potter didn't know exactly how high you could go and still be
      inside Hogwarts, but he was currently looking down on a flock of
      geese flying over the Forbidden Forest, fifty feet above the trees
      to avoid the Acromantula webs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd created a small clearing before sitting on his desk,
      shoving papers aside. The clutter had grown slowly and haphazardly
      over the fall. Despite Hogwarts being one of the seats of the
      wizarding world, most of the clutter consisted of books, not
      scrolls. His trunks stored the vast majority of Harry's books, but
      he'd brought the most useful references upstairs to save himself
      numerous trips and those dominated the scrolls, parchments,
      official reports that passed from the magical government of Britain
      to him for review. Already read items were scattered among the
      ever-increasing number of bookshelves lining his room high above
      Hogwarts (if they possessed some redeeming value or fact Harry
      thought he'd need) or tossed unceremoniously into the fire place
      (if they didn't). Some books on his desk were those that he needed
      to read quickly, so that he could return them to the library before
      Madam Pince noticed they were missing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was obvious to anyone who paid attention that Harry Potter
      was not a normal student at Hogwarts. He still preferred not to
      draw attention to it, so Harry simply took the books he needed then
      returned them – hopefully unmissed – at a later date. It wasn't
      really stealing, after all. Headmaster Dumbledore had given him
      Hogwarts, although part of Harry knew it wasn't Dumbledore's to
      give. In any case Hogwarts didn't appear to mind. Still, the first
      time he'd snuck into the restricted section and swiped a few books
      from the shelves, he'd gotten a small thrill even though he knew
      that he hadn't broken the wards, they just didn't register his
      actions as theft. The wards merely shrugged instead of screaming
      and trapping him in an inky black tar, like they did for regular
      students.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Try as he might, Harry hadn't convinced Hermione to read any
      books from the restricted section. She'd said there would be time
      enough later and that she still had plenty of "good" magic to learn
      <em class="calibre7">thank you very much</em> and then she'd turned up her nose at
      him, swiveling her chair around to face the other direction and
      planting said nose back into the Advanced Potion Making book she
      was re-reading for the second time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter still wasn't sure if that counted as flirting or
      not.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Scattered in between his reference books, borrowed books and
      slowly growing collection of interesting magical artifacts a scroll
      rested. More specifically, a map. Very specifically, a magical map
      that accurately drew Hogwarts and its occupants then magically
      erased and re-draw their updated positions, as well as the ever
      changing campus itself. People's names appeared next to small
      footstep icons as they walked, ran, snuck or otherwise moved around
      campus. Harry had flown a broom around campus while staring at the
      map, but it still portrayed his motion with little icons that any
      illustrator would recognize as 'footprints,' despite the fact that
      he'd been flying and his feet never touched the ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Maurader's Map intrigued Harry. It provided a reasonable and
      - as far as Harry could tell - true depiction of Hogwarts and its
      inhabitants. The question that Harry had spent a few percent of his
      spare time investigating: <em class="calibre7">How?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">As fields of science went, Information Theory had barely gotten
      out of diapers. Claude Shannon had figuratively conjured the entire
      field into existence when he published "The Mathematical Theory of
      Communication" at the famous Bell Labs shortly after the Second
      World War. Harry Potter hadn't mastered the maths necessary to
      fully grasp the work, but he'd read enough commentary to understand
      the basics of how information worked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In Harry's brief forays into investigating the intersection
      between science and magic, only Information Theory had come away
      unscathed. Some branches of magic respected conservation laws, but
      generally Magic regarded Science like the boring killjoy you
      avoided at a party. Sometimes Magic grumbled and said a polite
      hello but usually Magic ignored Science and did whatever it wanted
      to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Magic was Oscar Madison to Science's Felix Ungar.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But Information Theory? So far, Harry hadn't seen any magical
      violations of its rules.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Magic seemed to have bandwidth that, if not infinite, was big
      enough to not matter as a practical concern. In any case,
      divination didn't use much bandwidth, most spells didn't seem to
      use much. Transfiguration probably used the most, but estimating
      how much was a tricky matter. Magic had relatively good signal
      strength. But there was no reason – in theory – that communication
      channels had to be noisy. (Harry had posited that Divination's
      relatively useless nature was somehow encrypting information in a
      way to prevent noise from affecting it, unlike the rest of magic.
      But he had no way to test this). In any case Technology had made
      impressive gains on reducing noise, so magic's signal strength was
      not a theoretical concern.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If information theory failed, Harry suspected it would by
      violating the restriction on moving faster than light. Given the
      existence of time turners there were probably some modifications to
      Shannon's theory, and the possibility of sending information faster
      than light would be of pressing importance, once humanity spread to
      multiple planets. Harry hoped that magic violated that rule, it
      would be useful. But so far this one branch of science had avoided
      Magic's lecherous advances and sly come-ons. It remained pure,
      unbroken by magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That surprised Harry, but <em class="calibre7">Information implies Surprise</em>.
      After all, if someone told you a fact that didn't surprise you at
      all, you already knew it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Part of the proof that English has redundancy built into it was
      that if you named the letters of a plaintext message one at a time,
      people could guess the next letter much more often than random
      chance dictated. Similarly with the words. If you asked any
      American to say the next word in the phrase '<em class="calibre7">The President of
      the United'</em> then most would say '<em class="calibre7">States</em>.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"States" wouldn't surprise them. "<em class="calibre7">Auto</em>" would be
      surprising, except at a union rally.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As far as Harry could tell, the Marauder's Map had been the rare
      surprise for Voldemort during his year at Hogwarts. Not only had he
      not known of its existence, he'd been doubly surprised that the map
      printed 'Tom Riddle' for him. It hadn't shown Harry's legal name,
      or the name given him by his parents, or the name he called
      himself. It somehow knew that he was an imprint of Tom Riddle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That was a disturbingly compelling argument for the concept of
      souls. Not as a religious concept but as an actual mental state,
      albeit only an initial state. For the time being, Harry had shoved
      aside the more complex philosophical questions and focused on what
      other information the Map could convey. It could be a profoundly
      useful security device. The map could detect invisible intruders –
      Alastor had tried a number of spells, but he showed up on the map
      at all times. Hermione disappeared when hidden under her Deathly
      Hallow, but otherwise people were clearly labeled. Harry had also
      wondered if the Map – which recognized Harry's origins before he
      had – could tell if someone was under an external influence.
      However, experimentation had shown that <em class="calibre7">imperiused</em>
      subjects were labelled as themselves, not their controller.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had felt a twinge of guilt, having Minerva confiscate the
      Map from the Twins, although he'd at least made sure their memories
      were restored. But he needed to experiment with it. He'd have it
      'accidentally' returned later. Even with its limitations, the Map
      could revolutionize security. Once Harry figured out how to
      replicate it, anyway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry built Peverell adjacent to Hogwarts, connected at the
      infirmary, but it was not part of Hogwarts proper, which meant it
      didn't show up on the Map. Harry had wanted them separate for
      logistical reasons and to keep people from asking too many
      questions – which was another reason he'd reluctantly asked the
      Headmistress to confiscate the Map – but once Harry understood this
      device that could detect invisible intruders he'd announced that
      Peverell was part of Hogwarts. Then he'd decreed it. Then he'd had
      a law passed to that effect.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Map didn't care, or show any of the new addition. Whatever
      logic it used to decide what to show, the map didn't seem
      influenced by politics or what people said. It didn't matter that
      Harry Potter felt like Harry Potter, to the map he was Tom Riddle.
      It didn't care that Harry called Peverell part of Hogwarts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's experiments – and thousands of galleons to pay wizarding
      craftsmen – had let him develop 'his' map he used for the Muggle
      Naval Simulation. The displaying was the easy part. He'd just
      gotten some computer programs to run the simulation (using
      thousands of dollars to pay programmers) and his map reflected the
      reality of the program.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But <em class="calibre7">that</em> information existed on a concrete level – on a
      computer monitor, or in the hard drive. Sure, the Marauder's map
      looked at people on the grounds. But how did it see into him? How
      did it see the invisible? Was it the same way that the Sorting Hat
      worked? Harry didn't expect an answer soon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Good research – by definition – was full of surprises.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At this moment Harry idly studied the Great Hall. It was lunch
      time, which meant that most of the students were in the great hall.
      The sheer number of names meant that the map couldn't show them
      all. Rather, it could, but they'd fill up the entire Hallway with
      ink, so the Map didn't. Harry wondered how it decided. Did it have
      some intelligence, like the Hat? If so, who did it borrow it from?
      Or did it just work on simple rules. You could get surprisingly
      subtle and complex behavior from a few simple rules.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had been tinkering with the map most of the morning. He
      was <em class="calibre7">supposed</em> to be dealing with the Wizengamot and the
      political fallout that was starting to happen because people
      weren't dying as much as they used to. Other countries were
      becoming concerned about their political power in this suddenly
      changed world. Harry wished that he'd gotten Hari Seldon when he'd
      recruited Professor Asimov. Figuring out the future history was
      beyond him, beyond anyone. So he was just muddling along, trying to
      smooth things out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd taken a break to play with the map because he was bored and
      procrastinating. He'd almost resolved to get back to looking at the
      correspondence that had come from Casciora, a parliament of
      Romanian Witches, when something struck him. The students had been
      filing out of the Great Hall, which now was almost empty. He'd seen
      them streaming out through various doors, names appearing once they
      were far enough apart that they could be distinguished. Harry had
      spent the morning tracking people around, trying to think of clever
      security tricks or how he'd hide from the Map, if he suspected
      someone was watching him. If he could do that, he could return it
      sooner. But as he'd been thinking about this, something about the
      lunchtime crowd struck him. Harry pushed his glasses back up the
      bridge of his nose.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Show me my room," Harry said. And the scene shifted, scrolling
      smoothly, and Harry saw his room, empty. Lesath was walking through
      the Slytherin Commons room by himself, apparently heading back to
      his room. Harry glanced at the clock on the wall, it was a bit
      after 1pm. There was a Quiddich game scheduled, Ravenclaw versus
      Hufflepuff.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Show me the bleachers, Slytherin seating." Harry examined the
      names quickly, then shifted over to the Hufflepuff stands, just in
      case. Lots of people, but not who he was hunting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Show me the library," Harry said. Hermione was there, of
      course. Her unmoving name was scrawled elegantly next to her
      favorite table. Madam Pince and a few students, mostly fifth years,
      walked around the stacks. Harry studied the map for another
      second.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine," Harry said, more to himself than the map. "Show me Draco
      Malfoy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The map erased itself, just a blank piece of parchment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh," Harry said to himself, surprised.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">A few minutes earlier.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">A man, hair tangled in thick curls, with mutton chop sideburns
      steps up into the carriage, almost tripping because he cannot keep
      his eyes on the small step of the entrance, but is looking towards
      the front, at the horrific beasts tethered to the carriage that
      only he can see.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco turned his head from the window he'd been staring out of,
      at the front of Hogwarts and gives a slight nod to the man. "Thank
      you again for this, Isaac. I know it's an imposition on your day
      off, and I appreciate it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's no trouble at all, Draco. Frankly I welcome the chance to
      get out and about. It's not that anyone is rude, or impolite. But I
      really feel like a movie shooting victim when I'm on that campus."
      Professor Asimov laughed and Draco realized there was probably some
      joke.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm afraid I don't get it," Draco said. With other people he'd
      force a wan smile or just nod, but given the cultural differences
      Draco considered it better to just admit ignorance and learn from
      it. <em class="calibre7">In this situation at least</em>. The carriage gave a small
      jostle as it started off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, a fake gunshot in movies is done with a packet of fake
      blood and a small explosive, referred to as a 'squib.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's actually clever," Draco said, smiling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unlike the rest of my jokes, you mean?" Professor Asimov had an
      artificially dour look on his face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Exactly." They both laughed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tell me, Draco, what are the beasts that are pulling this
      carriage?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What animals?" Draco said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They look like … two skeletal pegasus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pegasus...," Draco screwed up his face, thinking. "That's a
      breed of winged horse, isn't it? And skeletal." Draco reached into
      his robes and pulled out a small black notebook, opened it, then
      spoke to it. "Reminder for later, research skeletal winged horses
      that children cannot see." The words appeared in an elegant
      handwriting. Draco closed the book and slipped it back into his
      robes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quite a useful device," Professor Asimov said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"More convenient than a scroll, but basically the same idea as a
      Self Writing Quill, except the spell is on the book, not the
      writing instrument. I'll look this up later and see what I find,
      although I suspect you could just ask the groundskeeper."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco did look up Thestrals later, his diary sketching a
      horrifying image. The fact this his research would take no longer
      than a minute was something he felt slightly guilty about, but he
      gave no outward sign of discomfort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I hope it's not much trouble but, thank you Draco. Much like
      this trip, which you view as a burden to me, but I'm actually happy
      to get out and about, and some slight errands along the way pose no
      real issue. I do have something for you." He handed a slim
      paperback book to Draco, who flipped it over.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nine Tomorrows," he read. <em class="calibre7">By Isaac Asimov.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I particularly recommend Gentle Vultures to you. Your speech to
      Gilderoy's class after that last war reminded me of the story. Not
      the writing or plot, but the general moral nature."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You heard about the speech?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professors Lockhart and Slughorn discussed it at some length,
      and in some detail. Professor Lockhart, in particular, seemed
      impressed with your insight and said that it showed surprising
      moral development."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Asimov smiled as they passed underneath the gate to
      the entrance of Hogwarts.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Six days earlier.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Asimov took one bite of Dragon Tartare and made a
      face. Gilderoy was still speaking "... it was gripping, as you'd
      expect from a Malfoy, but what astonished me was that he showed
      surprising moral development for a Slytherin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean '<em class="calibre7">for a Slytherin</em>?'" Horace dropped
      his fork and leaned over, practically placing his chest onto the
      table. That got the attention of the entire head table, most of
      whom had been ignoring yet another speech by the Professor of
      <em class="calibre7">Offenses against the Social Arts</em>, as Professor Trewlaney
      dubbed him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, its just that you don't often hear about the glories of
      protecting the innocent and tales for the fallen from Slytherin. I
      mean, a speech about the nobility of those who died in war seems
      right for Hufflepuff."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At this moment Pomona Spout tossed her fork down on the table,
      which clattered loudly against her plate. "Oh, so we're victims,
      not like the heroic Gryffindors," she said. Professor Lockhart's
      smile wavered for a second, and he was about to speak when the
      Headmistress gently set down her spoon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure he didn't mean it that way, <em class="calibre7">Did you?</em>"
      Headmistress McGonagall cocked her head gently towards Professor
      Lockhart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, of course not. What I <em class="calibre7">meant</em> to say. That is, the
      idea that good and noble soldiers die all the time is a common
      theme that applies to everyone. And since the outcome of the battle
      doesn't affect the moral nature of the combatant. Well, those facts
      seems like just the sort of thing that Helga Hufflepuff would agree
      with." Pomona sniffed dismissively, while he continued. "And while
      I don't think that Rowena Ravenclaw would dispute the fact that
      being clever in war is no guarantee of survival, I don't recall her
      ever saying anything to that effect."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gilderoy Lockhart kept talking before anyone could interrupt,
      because he couldn't actually recall <em class="calibre7">anything</em> that Rowena
      Ravenclaw had ever said, and didn't want to learn at this time. In
      fact, he'd somewhat lost the train of thought as to why he was
      defending himself. After another sentence or two he remembered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I'm sure that Salazar also knew what Draco said, but he
      didn't really emphasize it. Whereas Gryffindors have more history
      with heroic failure than most, because we tend to leap before we
      look. We don't have to dig deeply into our history to see our
      heroes die fairly often. Oh, we sing about the winners more than
      remember the losers, but the lesson is there. That's all I that I
      meant. Do you see what I'm saying, Horace?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see you have no idea what you are talking about. You carry
      your simplistic view of the world and forsake nuance. Do you want
      to know the burden of House Slytherin? Well, I'll tell you anyway,
      not to enlighten you but because you deserve to shoulder the
      weight. We know that the dead who rot in the streets may not have
      been innocent, we know that you cannot reduce people to songs you
      sing about them when you get drunk. We know the world isn't black
      and white, but merely shades of grey."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You call me a fool for seeing only two colours, then reduce it
      to one!" The headmistress started to speak, but Horace jabbed his
      pudgy finger into the puffy finery worn by Gilderoy Lockhart and
      poked him twice while speaking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not one, <em class="calibre7">infinite</em>. You blame us for the last two
      decades because you are ignorant. Slytherin is the house that
      traditionally stops most wars. We murder them when they are babies,
      strangle them in their cribs or snap their beautiful necks and then
      go off to console their parents. Sometimes we fail, then we fight
      them when they are fully grown. We prefer to murder their pregnant
      mothers, no matter how pretty the young woman may be. And we don't
      go marching off with some foolish bird on our shoulder singing to
      us. We make hard choices, because we understand. <em class="calibre7">Albus</em>
      understood. He ordered people to die and did it knowingly, and it
      almost destroyed him. Could you do that? No, you'd just rush in
      yourself and fight for glory and die whether it won the war or not.
      Would you let Albus order you to your death? Of course you would,
      because you'd never imagine anything but victory and it wouldn't be
      prudent for Dumbledore to mention otherwise. No, the curse of my
      house is that we know that <em class="calibre7">you</em> cannot deal with the world
      you actually live in, so you tell yourself lies."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Horace Slughorn shoved back from the table so
      violently that his chair topped over. Several students saw that,
      and saw his face red with rage even though no raised voices could
      be heard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your problem, Gilderoy, is that you've only learned from your
      own experience. Enough to be here, but you only know Slytherins
      from your past. And it isn't pretty, I'll grant you. It's dark. But
      due to your nature you'll be outclassed by our students soon
      enough, because they learn from other people's mistakes. That's why
      you can't conceive that Draco Malfoy has learned the wisdom of war
      without having ever been in a real battle, because you've never
      learned anything by thinking and you can't imagine we Slytherins
      do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Horace Slughorn stormed away, meal uneaten, it occurred to
      Gilderoy Lockhart that he'd never seen a Slytherin get truly angry
      before.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Author's Note</strong> - If you haven't left a review on
      , please consider it. I'm getting paid in ego.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
