<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2 - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 44: Release, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s12" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 44: Release</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Delay is the strongest form of Denial - Lucius
      Malfoy</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry if I kept you waiting, Professor." Draco slid easily
      into the opposite chair of the Leaky Cauldron, then caught the eye
      of the barmaid that Isaac had been flirting with for the last half
      hour. <em class="calibre7">To some avail</em>, Isaac thought, and chuckled. Then the
      chair next to him skidded noisily and Augusta Longbottom dropped
      into the chair, loudly dropping a purse that could hold a medium
      sized cauldron onto the table.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, there's something to this entire rejuvenation
      business. I would never have been able to deal with that arrogant
      snit's pleasant demeanor last year. I'd be too tired, and he'd be
      too respectful, '<em class="calibre7">Madam Longbottom, why don't you sit
      down?</em>' and '<em class="calibre7">Can I get you any tea?</em>' But now that I'm
      young, they just sneer and look down at me. And they
      <em class="calibre7">underestimate</em> me, isn't that delightful, Draco? Enjoy that
      while you can. It shan't last long."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The waitress Arianna came to the table, not as friendly as she
      had been a few moments ago. "I shall get simply plastered with all
      the wine you've got, dear," said Augusta.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Arianna looked dubious, and Draco ordered a butterbeer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No problem at all. Augusta dropped me off here and I've
      explored Diagon Alley all afternoon. I'd just ordered my dinner.
      So, your mission was a success?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They didn't let me in, if that's what you are asking. But yes,
      I think it was a success." Augusta stopped fidgeting to fix Draco
      with a look, which spared Isaac the problem of asking for
      clarification. "It was just a hunch. I don't <em class="calibre7">know</em> that
      there would be something important in the Hall of Prophecy, but I
      had a ... feeling. It may be important, Originally I just wanted to
      rule it out. But they are so obstinate about hiding something, they
      brought out the big guns to stop me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The clerk?" Isaac laughed. "That boy looked absolutely
      petrified. You can't mean him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. They just kept stringing me along. He'd never define all
      the steps he had to fulfill. He just set up an obstacle, and when I
      passed it, he set up the next one. Always apologetic. 'I'm very
      s-s-s-sorry, Lord Malfoy' and 'Well, there is this other
      regulation, you see.' Why, if I didn't have to run by my vault for
      some business – thank you again Madam Longbottom for that. You
      didn't really need to stay for the whole day."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Delay is the strongest form of denial.</em> Father taught
      that lesson yearly. If you told someone 'no,' they'd act against
      you. But if you could drag out the decision you may be able to
      placate them. Or they'd just lose interest or hope or find some
      other more pliable target. Sometimes they'd even just forget. You
      could eventually impose enough cost to make your adversary drop the
      matter. Father had also taught him the dangers, if you were ever
      uncovered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco had been on the other side today.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">And now you see just how dangerous it is to play that
      game,</em> Draco heard in Lucius voice. <em class="calibre7">They've confirmed your
      idle hunch, and even now you are planning to act. Not impetuously,
      I hope?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't need to convince me that it's important, Draco. I
      want to make sure we are fully quit with that foul
      would-be-imperator. Voldemort, not the clerk." Her words had a
      harsh quality, and to Isaac could just imagine that Augusta
      Longbottom was secretly all three Greek Furies. She'd just changed
      from the Atropos - the crone that kills - into Clotho, who spins
      the web into life. But just as soon as she finished her words,
      practically spitting, she smiled and was a young lady again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was an odd effect, but Isaac had started to get used to it.
      Arianna came back with the drinks and Augusta took her wine glass,
      drained it in one motion, set it back on the serving tray, and
      leaned over to him and said "And what did you do today,
      <em class="calibre7">hmmm?</em>" she said, batting her eyes at him.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Headmistress McGonagall pulled her head out of the Pensieve and
      sat thinking for several moments.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia Bones, hair brown with streaks of grey since her
      youthening last summer, had been sitting at her desk, quill
      scritching out memoranda, not wasting any time. She didn't look up
      as Minerva finished the memory, just kept writing. How Albus
      Dumbledore had done anything as Chief Warlock while also managing
      Hogwarts was beyond her. <em class="calibre7">Actually, everyone felt either so
      afraid of him they didn't interfere, or so inspired by him that
      they did all the work he didn't have time for,</em> she thought.
      <em class="calibre7">But I inspire little fear or loyalty</em>. She kept
      writing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, now I know why he gave up his cane so easily. He could
      summon it back at any time," Minerva's voice sounded resigned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The memory goes on for several more hours. Madam Longbottom
      comes back soon after that. She only left to be polite to your
      Professor and take him to Diagon Alley. We sent Aurors to confirm
      that. She returned quickly, along with Xenophilius Lovegood and the
      Lady Greengrass. Honestly if that boy had any idea where the Hall
      of Prophecy was, he'd have marched them straight to it by the
      end."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Poor Harrod," said Minerva, "Always so eager to please. This
      must have been terribly trying for him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, Draco didn't berate him. If <em class="calibre7">I'd</em> gotten the
      run-around all day my temper would flair." Amelie Bones dipped her
      quill in the inkwell, flipped over to the next scroll, and
      scribbled corrections on the wording, then set down her quill. "You
      need to control your people, Minerva."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor Asimov had no idea what he was doing. A student asked
      him a convenient favor and he agreed. Frankly, I got stir crazy my
      first year here, and I'm not a squib, but..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not him. I meant Malfoy. And Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry Potter," said Minerva, pausing. "I'm not in a position to
      order him around, and neither are you Amelia. I should think that
      after all you've seen..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've seen plenty. He doesn't need to be ordered around. He
      needs to be <em class="calibre7">controlled</em>. Gently. Persuasively. I'm not sure
      how Albus managed him, but figure it out. We're in a precarious
      enough situation as it stands right now. Voldemort killed all the
      right people - thank Merlin for small favors - and that bought us
      months of time. But I ... no, not just me. <em class="calibre7">We</em> can't have
      this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva pursed her lips. "What exactly can't we have,
      Amelia?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can't have it come out that Albus ransacked the Hall of
      Prophecy. We're in a tenuous situation, and if people lose
      confidence... They'd think Albus mad. <em class="calibre7">Madder</em> than they
      thought him. We need normalcy for years or maybe even a decade,
      before Harry can officially assume his position. Albus is only
      looked on favorably because he's a martyr. Imagine how they'll
      react if they knew. Or how they'll react when they discover he made
      that child Chief Warlock. Potter's plans..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Seem to be proceeding quite well," Minerva sniffed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because they aren't <em class="calibre7">his</em>, as far as the public is
      concerned." The Chief Warlock got up and sat on her desk, looking
      slightly down at the Headmistress of Hogwarts. "Minerva, you know
      me. I'm not a politician. I never wanted to be. I didn't want this
      job and nothing would make me happier than running the DMLE. But
      you don't get to be head of any department, even DMLE, by ignoring
      politics. Young Malfoy stirred up a hornet's nest, and he did it
      well. If he'd been some foolish Gryffindor and charged into the
      Ministry firing spells, or even just snuck in we could write this
      off. But what he did ... Even Lucius couldn't have pulled this off,
      nobody would trust him. Draco doesn't have his father's baggage.
      Just like Albus, he's a martyr, but a living breathing one who
      never raved on about the mystical properties of licorice during a
      three day session of the Wizengamot. Draco almost died then
      renounced vengeance against House Potter. He practically owns the
      Prophet, the Quibbler is with him on this and he's been courting
      key votes. Imagine how this will play out!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Voldemort's dead, and I don't think..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's already come back once. Even if <em class="calibre7">we</em> know it won't
      happen again, the public doesn't. Best case, we spin it that
      Voldemort destroyed the Hall of Prophecy, although that doesn't
      make us look good either and the timeline may not withstand
      scrutiny. I'm not sure which Unspeakables know the truth, but I
      suspect several do. Imagine if it comes out. Then people start to
      ask the question – what was Dumbledore hiding?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You give too little credit to people," said Minerva.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The same people that voted to send Hermione Granger to
      Azkaban?" asked the Chief Warlock, cocking her head.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione heard Draco walking through the stacks a few seconds
      before he sat down at her table. The disturbing part was that she
      wasn't actually sure how she knew it was Draco. <em class="calibre7">Maybe I
      recognized his pace, he does stride around</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hi Draco. How are you?" she asked, smiling at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, thank you." He shifted in his seat for a second as
      Hermione closed the book she was reading, and Draco read off the
      title. "<em class="calibre7">The Structure of Scientific Revolutions.</em> Is it
      interesting?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not really. I'd rather be studying potions, but that's my
      reward for finishing this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco just let out a laugh, a real one, relaxed. He didn't even
      seem worried as Madam Pince glared at him, barely two aisles away.
      "Well, we all have so much to do. But I can offer you something
      much more interesting to do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what's that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Research. Can Xare transport you any place you want?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Trying to break into Peverell? I'm sorry Draco. I don't have
      time for that. But I imagine so, she's taken me everywhere else.
      They don't really have a defense against it, except that Xare
      wouldn't take anyone who wanted to steal the chalice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, not Peverell." Draco leaned across the table and whispered
      conspiratorially. "There's a room underneath the Ministry of Magic.
      According to legend its lit by the glow of souls and the sounds of
      the dead echo across time. In reality its probably lit by torches
      and guarded by Aurors and traps. Clever people who work for
      misguided fools feel that ignorance is safer than troubling
      knowledge, because in this room the greatest secrets of our day sit
      undisturbed and unheard by human ears."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He leaned back as Madam Pince walked by, and spoke in a normal,
      but still quiet tone. "Or they may not be important. I'll be able
      to get in once I pass my O.W.L.s and officially become Lord Malfoy,
      but I worry that may be too late. The knowledge that there may be
      something important. We need to know. I'm not really sure what else
      to do about it, but if a secret that may save lives bothers a
      Slytherin, perhaps the best way to discover it is to tell a
      Ravenclaw turned Heroic Gryffindor and ask for help."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione closed her book. "What can these secrets reveal?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know. Possibly how to save us all."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"I cannot believe you would do such a thing. A Professor at
      Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva McGonagall stood behind her desk. On her head her hat
      sat, bolt upright, freshly stretched and starched. Not a single
      article of her robes gave any indication of sloth, lazyness,
      laxity, or casualness. Her voice hinted at deep disappointment. Not
      the disappointment of a hopeful parent, but of a betrayed party.
      "And I don't want to hear about the troubles you've had adjusting
      to the position. Of all people, you should have seen this coming,
      Professor Slughorn."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Horace Slughorn blinked. "I consider myself fairly well
      informed, Headmistress. But I am not exactly sure why am I
      here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because of Malfoy and his antics at the Ministry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah ... now <em class="calibre7">that</em>, I did hear about. After the fact, of
      course. Shouldn't your scolds be directed at Professor Asimov, who
      took him, or Professor Lockhart, who asked Isaac on Draco's
      behalf?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can hardly blame a squib for being unaware when he's walking
      into a magical hornet's nest. And you and I both know that the new
      Head of Griffyndor isn't exactly renowned for thinking. But the
      three of you are the tangled bezoar, always chatting. You must have
      known. And <em class="calibre7">you</em> would understand that Draco's walk into the
      Ministry would be nothing but trouble. I'm getting owls from three
      under secretaries, what if they cut our funding? I don't expect you
      to know everything, but it doesn't take a subtle wizard to know the
      potential explosiveness of a student going to the Ministry. A
      potions master studies miscibility, some ingredients you just don't
      mix."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Horace Slughorn stood there, and bowed his head. "I apologize.
      Of course as the Head of his House I should be more aware of Young
      Malfoy's comings and goings and take an interest in his political
      tutelage. I will speak with him, and also <em class="calibre7">gently</em> correct
      my less experienced colleagues."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not being unreasonable," said the Headmistress, sitting
      down. "That's all I demand."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco knocked at the door, heard the grunting "Enter" and walked
      into Professor Slughorns room. It was just over the bridge and
      opposite the Potions classroom, technically not inside the Dungeon
      but he could stroll into it easily enough, just a minute from his
      House, and a minute from his classroom. A minute from Draco's
      room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco entered and closed the door behind him. The furniture was
      sparse, just a desk and some chairs. There were bookshelves all
      around the room, mostly covered with autographed pictures that
      waved to Draco pleasantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Headmistress took away your Sigil," Professor Slughorn
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco lifted it up and looked at it, then shrugged. "She
      returned it at Christmas, with the understanding that I wouldn't be
      bringing it back. And she did fashion me a replacement, to use as a
      bludgeon. That was nice of her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I take it as an honour that you feel I'm enough of a threat to
      warrant risking expulsion just to see to your safety. Sit down
      Draco. I've just spent a rather unpleasant hour being lectured by
      the Headmistress and as it happens I'm not in a mood to reenact the
      experience to someone else, even you. So, I'll just ask what you
      hoped to accomplish."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco stared into Professor Slughorn's eyes, and saw his
      surprise at the bold act. After a moment he lowered his gaze,
      submissively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Exactly what it seemed. You know there was a prophecy that
      Professor Trewlaney spoke, before the Headmaster took her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Professor Slughorn said, "I heard about it too, at the
      time. Of course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What if it wasn't about Voldemort? And what is <em class="calibre7">he coming
      for?</em> What will he tear apart?" Draco let just a hint of
      desperation from his voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Slughorn picked up a small china cup and took a sip of
      tea. Draco noticed that he hadn't been offered any. <em class="calibre7">A snub? Or
      recognition that I would refuse?</em> Draco just sat as Professor
      Slughorn considered for a second cup of tea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What does the name 'Tom Riddle' mean to you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't say that I've heard it," Draco said calmly, hoping it
      wasn't too calmly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I imagine you can't," said Professor Slughorn, chucking.
      "Well, let me tell about him. Riddle was my brilliant student,
      clever. Not just book clever, he would use spells in ways you
      wouldn't imagine in years. Even though he was raised by muggles his
      power grew quickly, and by the time he graduated ... well, I had no
      doubt he'd eclipse all of my previous proteges. I had such high
      hopes for him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what became of him, sir?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If I believe the stories? Your friend Miss Granger killed him
      last year." Professor Slughorn put down his tea cup. "Consider
      yourself reprimanded and show yourself out, Draco."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco walked back towards his room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If Professor Slughorn was right, Tom Riddle was Voldemort's real
      name. He finally had confirmation that his vision of Dumbledore had
      been true. Or at least contained new factual information. The
      vision predicted that Tom Riddle was Voldemort's name.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was always possible that Professor Slughorn had pulled the
      information from Draco's head, but if so, why confirm it? And if
      not ... Draco had received a wholly unexpected bonus from
      yesterday's tedious adventure. The entire trip to the Hall of
      Prophecy had been a long shot, a gambit. Apparently it had
      attracted much more attention than he'd hoped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco smiled. He'd gotten quite lucky. He'd expected to waste a
      few hours or an afternoon, but had apparently stuck a nerve. He'd
      rattled branches and a valuable piece of information had tumbled to
      the ground. And nobody at all seemed to notice that he'd stopped in
      his vault on a side errand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco twirled his Sigil once before dismissing it, and it
      disappeared into the aether.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco had work to do and spells to master.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
