<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2 - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 46: Reflections, Part 4, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s14" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 46: Reflections, Pt 4</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Draco had raised shields as soon as he'd entered the room. He'd
      even put harmonics into them, although he'd only just learned to do
      that reliably. He fired off an <em class="calibre7">expelliarmus</em> at Lockhart,
      but as the blinding flash of white light hit him he heard
      <em class="calibre7">Eunoe</em> and then the world went blank.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Harry Potter Day.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Despair washed over Draco. "This isn't an answer," he mumbled to
      the room, empty except for the shade of his former Headmaster. Then
      he shouted "I still don't know!" at the image of Albus Dumbledore,
      who was saying 'Hello, Tom' again<em class="calibre7">.</em> "It's not enough! How
      does this qualify as an answer? You trusted Harry knowing he was
      Voldemort, but <em class="calibre7">Voldemort fooled you too</em>!" Draco took out
      his wand and lashed out, cutting the mirror, smashing spell after
      spell at it, first normal spells he'd use in classes, on the
      battlefield, then the forbidden spells, he levitated a chair from
      across the room and flung it at the mirror. The chair itself
      shattered from the impact, leaving no cracks appeared on the
      glass.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a few minutes, exhausted, he slumped back to the ground,
      mumbling. "It's not fair. That's not an answer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, it most definitely is not," said Albus Dumbledore, standing
      besides the mirror and examining his own shade over half-moon
      glasses. He raised his head and turned his back on his reflection
      in the mirror, which continued its looping soliloquy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello, Draco." Draco scrambled to his feet, wand instinctively
      out. "I hardly fault you for that, Draco. I imagine you've had a
      rough time of it, and you've a particular reason to hate me. Still,
      I would never dream of hurting you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco lowered his wand. "You didn't burn Mother alive, you only
      pretended to. I can still hate you for all those years, but not as
      much. It ... was war."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Father would have done worse,</em> Draco thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore's blue eye's twinkled. "Narcissa is returned? I am
      glad. Voldemort is destroyed then. But you are still so
      young..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He was destroyed the night you got trapped," Draco waved at the
      mirror. Then he brightened up. "You got free! You were only
      pretending to be trapped? I'm confused. It's only Halloween, the
      fall after."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So soon?" Dumbledore sounded wistful. "No, Draco, I am still
      trapped. But it feels like a mere instant ago, and I suspect that
      however long it takes until I am truly freed will be just another
      instant. As to <em class="calibre7">how</em> this happened, well, Let's just say
      that I'd set up something for just such a situation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For the situation of someone here in this room..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I believe it is called the Room of Requirements, and even by
      Hogwarts standards it is exceedingly powerful. You required
      answers, the room naturally wanted to give them to you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So it dragged you out of time, Hogwarts freed you!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, even Hogwarts lacks that power. It ... loosened my bonds,
      so to speak. Although I helped the process along, which now
      explains that ridiculous night I stumbled around looking for a
      bathroom and a certain ritual. No, I am but temporarily freed. Once
      I have your forgiveness and you have your answers I will be gone
      again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why should I have to forgive you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, you do not <em class="calibre7">have</em> to forgive me, Draco, but I do
      hope that you will."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. I mean, I don't think you've done anything unforgivable."
      Draco paused, choosing his words carefully. "I'm not happy about
      it. But you were fighting Voldemort and I now realize what that
      meant. The Voldemort Father told me about, he was nothing like the
      real one was he?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, well, as to that I suppose there is some debate. But no,
      Draco, the real Voldemort was yet another mask worn by Tom Riddle.
      Who I taught, as you surmised from the mirror. So I bear true
      blame, even if I could not quite bring myself to burn your mother
      alive. Such a dreadful cost..." Dumbledore trailed off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco rubbed his temples. "I'm not sure I should believe this.
      Any of this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus gave a small chuckle, and sat down in a small chair
      heavily, as if his age had finally caught up with him. "That would
      be Harry's influence rubbing off on you. How do you suppose
      <em class="calibre7">he</em> would decide what to believe?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco thought about it. "If this is just a dream or false
      memory, then something won't add up. But if it's real, there are
      facts I can verify. So even if it's not you I'll know
      something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very good. In fact, you can get facts to confirm simply from my
      conversation with Tom Riddle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And those facts will let me confirm that Harry Potter is
      good."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, they should confirm that I thought so. Which I do. But
      meaning well and doing well are two entirely different things,
      don't you think Draco? I think you have done very well indeed.
      Although we both know there are things you have done you should not
      be proud of. Torturing Harry with a Dark Hex, for example."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco considered this. "That's something I already knew. But
      no," he said quietly, "I'm not proud of that. I don't suppose I was
      nice, back then. But … it's funny. I acquired power and made allies
      because everyone expected it of me. Father. The rest of the
      students. You, I suppose. And if nothing had happened I would
      continue. Maybe you should have stopped me, but I doubt you would
      have. And then, after the trial, I acquired a purpose. I was
      driven, maybe more so than anyone but Harry himself. I had a worthy
      ambition and if I turned out to be wrong it would still serve me
      well. The uncertainty drove me even more, because the one thing I
      knew was that <em class="calibre7">I might need to use it</em>. Now that I have
      something like confirmation and I can relax..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore has been listening with growing interest but at the
      last phrase he flickered and his face turned into a frown, and he
      interrupted Draco and got up, coughing slightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am sorry, Draco, if I gave you the impression that
      <em class="calibre7">trusting</em> Harry Potter sufficed. That may not be as
      comforting as you'd hoped. You see, there is a prophecy. Harry
      Potter will destroy the world. I listened to it myself, in the Hall
      of Prophecies."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco stuttered a few times, speechless.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, Harry means well. But destroying the world while meaning
      well still seems … extreme. I have balanced things out as best I
      can. But I cannot do that while trapped."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco gasped, "You want me to kill Harry..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh Merlin no. Harry might live for thousands of years, now. If
      he were to die suddenly he'd have to destroy the world before he
      died you see. Prophecies are tricky things, and Harry might very
      well destroy the world trying to save it. Or he may destroy it in a
      fit of rage, or through carelessness. I rather think he will
      destroy the world in a good way. But I may have misjudged and Harry
      will in fact turn evil. As you pointed out, Voldemort has fooled me
      before. While Harry's alive there's always hope. No, <em class="calibre7">you</em>
      must ensure that if he does destroy the world, he does so in the
      best possible way. And if he does not, well, you must deny him,
      without killing him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco thought about it. "I can't. Not forever. A year, sure. I
      have a head start, but he's gaining rapidly. Can I keep ahead of
      him through through school? Maybe. But after that, he'll be too
      powerful. I'll slip up. I don't even know <em class="calibre7">Occlumency</em>. I'll
      slip up and he'll catch on. No, you have to send me a message later
      on when I'm older. I can't remember this now," Draco pointed his
      wand firmly at his head but Albus Dumbledore strode over and
      knocked his wand away, and it skittered along the floor, almost all
      the way back to the mirror where the shade of Albus Dumbledore was
      saying "Hello, Tom," again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No! <em class="calibre7">This</em> you must remember, I cannot do this again!
      There are no other messages." Dumbledore deflated and sighed, then
      opened his hand and Draco's wand flew back into it. When he spoke
      again his voice was sad and serene.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can plot no further, Draco, and so I ask your forgiveness,
      just as I asked Severus when I gave him his tasks. And when I
      finally see him, rest assured that I will ask for Salazar's
      forgiveness, for the demands I've made on his followers, <em class="calibre7">but
      this you must do."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That must be your plot, Draco. I dare not tell you a plan, lest
      you follow it blindly. You will need to make adjustments on the
      way. But you are not alone. I still have allies here, and help is
      always available at Hogwarts to those who ask. Do you really need
      to hide this memory?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well, go see Professor Lockhart and tell him what you
      require. If he balks, tell him '<em class="calibre7">The eyes of the Basilisk are on
      you.</em>' He'll lock this memory safely away, but recoverable. I
      only have a few moments left," Dumbledore handed Draco his wand
      back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would ask you to tell Narcissa that I am sorry, but our
      conversation must remain a secret. So I ask you again, Draco, for
      forgiveness. Not for the past, but for your future. It is a hard
      task I set before you, but the world hangs in the balance."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus Dumbledore looked at Draco Malfoy over the half-moon
      glasses, eyes pleading. But when Draco finally opened his mouth to
      reply the Headmaster and the mirror disappeared. Draco paused for a
      moment, then took out his journal and wrote a few notes before
      heading out to find Professor Lockhart.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco looked around as the memory faded to see that he was still
      in Professor Lockhart's office. He'd crumpled into the corner and
      as he pulled himself up Draco realized he'd been crying.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry," Draco said, "I thought..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I thought I was going crazy. I thought I was going to die.
      And now I don't know what to think.<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can imagine," said Professor Lockhart, sitting back down and
      stowing his wand. Draco suspected he didn't have the slightest
      inkling. "Do you need any help?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco shook his head. "I don't know. I need time to think."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I had to tell Professor Slughorn about this," Professor
      Lockhart said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco nodded, and wiped his cheeks and cast three glamours to
      improve his appearance. "Tell him it makes sense now, and I thank
      him. But if he goes digging around my mind again..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco slipped out of the room, and started walking back towards
      Slytherin. As he walked, he pulled a silver ring out of his pouch,
      then took off an identical ring off his left hand. As Draco
      switched them, he made his way back to his room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Things were starting to make sense.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All he needed now was all the information he'd lost and a
      plan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At least for the information, he knew where to begin.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Author's Note</strong> - Due to having a full October,
      I'm switching back to a single update per week. Next update on
      Tuesday the 13th.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
