<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2 - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 47: Wargames, Part 7, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s15" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 47: Wargames, Pt 7</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Draco stretched, taking a few precious seconds to rub his neck
      and rest his eyes. <em class="calibre7">I'm tired of that map.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The view never changed, mostly water. Land from the south jutted
      up into the lake or sea or wherever it was, a small bump ships
      moved around. A gentle curve of land starting in the east and
      gently curving to the north. A few islands - including one that
      looked vaguely like a dolphin. The <em class="calibre7">Bludger</em> bobbed gently,
      roughly halfway between the invading land to the south and the
      northern shore. A good position to monitor air traffic. Hermione
      said she'd seen it before, but Draco didn't recognize it and Harry
      had asked them not to investigate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Which was fine with Draco. He had more pressing concerns.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dozens of brooms moved across the map, but the voices around him
      spoke calmly and softly. This simulation had just started its third
      hour: they'd gotten up early on a Saturday morning so that they
      could do a full day.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Like Muggle Movie Night, The Muggle Broom Simulation (as it was
      now called) had proven popular. Harry had opened them up to other
      students and asked each of the Bayesian Conspiracy Members to run
      groups through. Draco still didn't know how to create or operate a
      scenario, but once you started it the spell took over. By now over
      twenty groups had finished the basic simulation that the Conspiracy
      ran the first night. That left hundreds of students who wanted to
      try. A spectator area had been set up, which helped now. Since
      people witnessed other missions, the adjudicator didn't need to
      explain every detail every time. Several special training sessions
      had been run to explain things to the entire crowd, and there were
      a few variant simulations, to add to the surprise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had warned this new scenario was much more
      complicated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco couldn't disagree.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco couldn't see the spectators, but <em class="calibre7">The Bludger</em>
      usually drew a crowd. Each crew named their own ship, and kept
      tallies of their wins and losses. So far this morning they'd dealt
      with several brooms trying to take advantage of blind spots, a
      large broom attack, and an accidental fire had rendered them blind
      for several minutes before their map had been restored. Now several
      boats had started an assault against the <em class="calibre7">Doppleganger
      Defense</em>. They'd been small boats - practically invisible to
      radar - but <em class="calibre7">The DD</em> was vulnerable to even the smallest
      boats.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was another <em class="calibre7">Skysweeper</em>, after all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How long until our brooms reach the DD?" Draco asked, eyes
      still closed. He could remember the rough broom positions. The
      <em class="calibre7">Doppelganger Defense</em> was off to their west, and the brooms
      were on it. Green brooms were converging on their position. Draco
      felt like the map image had been burnt onto his retina.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Five minutes," said Daphne, who was running communications for
      today.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Contact 4474, presumed red," said Gregory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco opened his eyes and looked at the map. 4474 had just taken
      off from the mixed use northern-central airbase. The clock showed
      10:17:15. Barely three hours into the simulation, five hours to go.
      Harry had explained that this scenario studied fatigue on decision
      making. This was <em class="calibre7">meant</em> to be tiring, Draco felt exhausted
      already. This was another hassling run, probably. The enemy almost
      never directly attacked, not without a local force advantage, but
      they'd send out brooms to divide forces or probe for weak spots.
      Right now the <em class="calibre7">Bludger</em> had sent its brooms to help the
      <em class="calibre7">DD</em>, so it didn't have great defenses.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco sat in the big chair today.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An automated voice, sounding like a middle aged woman said,
      "<em class="calibre7">Bludger</em>, Request information on P-3." The simulation had
      gotten more complicated. Now the team also fielded requests from
      the rest of the fleet, as well as getting support from them. Draco
      scanned the map for the P-3, which was apparently a command broom
      carrying equipment similar to a <em class="calibre7">skysweeper</em>. He'd been
      incredulous last week when they'd been added to the scenario, that
      Muggles had <em class="calibre7">flying</em> command centers. But Harry assured him
      they did.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Since the P-3 flew it could scrye farther than the
      <em class="calibre7">Bludger</em>. It was probably coordinating the red brooms.
      Draco didn't see it on the map.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Southern view? That P-3?" The broom had been seen in the south
      west … fifteen minutes ago. Was it that long? Draco had a rough
      feel for how fast it could go, but that covered a large portion of
      the map.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione ran the Southern view today. "It's been out of our
      range for over eight minutes. I've got last known coordinates. Let
      me see ..." As Hermione spoke the simulation continued asking about
      target numbers. They'd complained about that, but apparently that
      was realistic. The simulation didn't listen to them. Just gave
      information. Draco saw Hermione's notation appear on the main
      map.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Comms, relay the information back on the P-3," said Draco.
      Daphne acknowledged the command and Draco could forget about this.
      A few seconds later Daphne spoke up again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">DD</em> is firing on incoming boats and taking fire. Still
      requesting support." Draco saw a red broom disappear near the DD.
      He almost cursed, it would be at least five more minutes before
      they could support. A broom appeared at the edge of the eastern
      coast, well inside the outer circle. It had probably been flying
      low to avoid radar. A second. Both red. Draco didn't need to do
      anything, the team ran smoothly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"New targets," said Hermione. "4802 and 4845 coming in from the
      east. ETA five minutes." They'd seen dozens of hassling sorties
      over the last two sessions. If these two brooms followed the
      pattern, they'd rush towards the <em class="calibre7">Bludger</em> for a few
      minutes, then break off. Two brooms weren't a serious threat, but
      could provoke an incident if Draco over-reacted. Eventually one
      would try something … and given the current attack on their sister
      ship now might just be the time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Captain," Gregory said. "4474 hasn't acknowledged my
      challenges."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco looked at the map. 4474 still had a red question mark.
      Draco recognized the path, it was used by the grey brooms to go
      from the mixed use northern airfield to the mixed use southern
      airfield. But enemy planes sometimes hid in the shadows of the
      larger skybuses.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Comms, confirm." Draco said. Draco could hear Daphne's quiet
      voice talking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco noticed that the red brooms in the east closing in, still
      a few more minutes away from where he could threaten them. Draco
      looked at the map and focused on the broom bearing down on them.
      <em class="calibre7">This didn't feel right.</em> He couldn't do anything about the
      other brooms. Not yet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do we know about 4474?" Draco asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, took off three minutes ago. No scheduled flight at that
      time, which is why simulation presumed red. Following the standard
      path for grey brooms, that's why I checked." Gregory hesitated than
      offered his opinion. "A gutsy hassle run, maybe?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Daphne started to say something, but the automated voice cut her
      off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Bludger,</em> be advised brooms 4850 and 4292 breaking off
      from <em class="calibre7">Doppelganger Defense</em> and targeting you." The voice
      sounded matronly, like an officious bureaucrat pleased with
      herself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not responding," Daphne said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Those two breaking from DD to us have priority," Draco said,
      and he could see the readouts indicating that Neville had moved the
      shields to cover the brooms breaking away from the <em class="calibre7">DD</em>
      towards them. Blaise was also bringing weapons to bear. He watched
      them, they'd be here in a few minutes. <em class="calibre7">That was too much of a
      coincidence.</em> Two brooms coming in from the west, two coming in
      from the east, and one from the north.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"ETAs on all inbounds?" Draco said. Numbers appeared on all the
      brooms, All the brooms would hit the red circle within a minute or
      two. He couldn't deal with them all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco started to speak but the simulation started as well, Draco
      raised his voice. "Declare a no fly zone, our red circle, effective
      now. Order all brooms away. Weapons Free. Keep shielding the pair
      to the west."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The bridge responded with a flurry of voices. The two eastern
      brooms kept approaching, but the western brooms were veering south.
      They might clip the no-fly zone, it would be close. The northern
      broom stayed unchanged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ops, What is 4474 doing? Anyone?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I … I can't tell," said Gregory. Hermione flicked her wand at
      the map. Then again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory found his voice "Got it. Descending. It's an attack
      run!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's ascending," said Hermione, her voice rising in tone just
      like Gregory's had.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which is it?" Draco said. The ETA counter was timing down.
      "Shields cover 4474. Weapons, you are free to shoot the others, but
      hold off on 4474."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Something is weird about it," said Gregory and Hermione quickly
      agreed but they were both working their wands. The ETA timer was
      counting down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Covering 4474," said Neville. The timer was at five seconds.
      Draco watched it counting down to four three, two, one, zero, the
      broom was flashing as it crossed the red circle. It could fire on
      them now, and the closer it got the worse it would be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville, staring intently at his readout, spoke up "Thirty more
      seconds and our shields won't matter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They'd learned early on that, at least for these type of
      scenarios, Muggle shields worked on deception, not brute strength.
      Once a broom could see the ship it could fire a missile, shields or
      no.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">What's it doing?"</em> Draco said, barely getting his words
      out before the <em class="calibre7">DD</em> requested another update on the P-3.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's … gone?" said Hermione, but the broom still showed up on
      the map. Her wand was moving furiously now, searching the map.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, descending, gaining speed," Gregory's voice was steady
      again. "It's right on the same path, how could you ..." Gregory's
      voice trailed off, the question unasked. Draco stared at the main
      map, the broom was right there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Twenty," said Neville.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco "Weapons, target them. Hermione, I see it on the map.
      Comms, are they talking?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Targeting," Blaise shouted to be heard over the intercom, which
      was reporting <em class="calibre7">Green brooms engaged over Doppelganger
      Defense.</em> The simulation was still speaking, listing new broom
      contacts from other ships, when Daphne answered "Still no
      communications from them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco looked as the eastern broom tracks veered suddenly off.
      The western brooms would miss the no-fly zone. 4474 hadn't changed
      course.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ten seconds," said Neville.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even before he finished Draco responded "Fire."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Several long seconds later the 4474 disappeared from the
      map.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Confirmed," said Neville.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco turned his attention to situation to the west. "When will
      we reach shielding distance to help the <em class="calibre7">DD?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Two minutes," said Gregory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With the green brooms engaging the enemy and the hassling
      sorties out of position to coordinate against the <em class="calibre7">Doppelganger
      Defense t</em>he operation became easy, even routine. A mopping up
      effort. Twenty minutes later the skies were green. Suddenly, the
      map disappeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco blinked, the clock said 10:45.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Another fire? We've still got four hours to go," Draco said.
      "Get the sailors to estimate the damage..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, we're done," said Harry. "A bit of misdirection, I never
      intended to run an eight hour simulation. That would take too long.
      I just wanted you to think it would be eight hours when we started.
      I'd like to run this simulation for a few other teams, so please
      don't talk about it with anyone. We'll start Monday night. Gregory,
      are you available to operate?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure," said Gregory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why lie about the time," Draco asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, so you wouldn't know when the critical moment was. You'd
      assume it would come in the end of the test, so I had to make 'the
      end of the test' seem much further away."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So we won? We saved the <em class="calibre7">DD</em>" asked Blaise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not about winning or losing," said Harry, voice carefully
      neutral. "It's about operating efficiently under stress and making
      right decisions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Something in Harry's tone triggered a warning bell in Draco's
      head. Harry acted socially ... inept, but gave praise easily. Harry
      spent countless nights encouraging the Bayesian Conspiracy. Over
      the last month Harry had commended the bridge of the
      <em class="calibre7">Bludger</em> and other crews. He tutored Hufflepuffs, for
      Merlin's sake. Harry's days remained a mystery, but during evenings
      he encouraged anyone and helped all who asked. Draco saw Hermione's
      shoulders slump, she apparently shared his opinion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Only one decision had been stressful for the entire four hours,
      and Harry's tone implied Draco had gotten it wrong.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"4474," Draco's voice quieted the room. "It was grey, wasn't
      it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry paused and shifted uncomfortably. "The <em class="calibre7">HMS
      Bludger</em> just killed 290 civilians."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The lights came up and Draco felt relieved to see that the
      spectator area was empty, except for Professor Lockhart.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
