<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2 - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 48: Wargames, Part 8, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s16" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 48: Wargames, Pt 8</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Draco replayed the decision in his head while the House Elves
      appeared, setting up a small table for lunch. After a moment Draco
      opened his eyes and saw Hermione sitting in her chair, hunched
      over. After Harry had announced that they'd killed innocent
      civilians the room descended into several arguments, but Hermione
      just sat there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco paused. Father's voice quickly listed all of the reasons
      not to talk to Hermione. Draco ignored him, walked over and sat
      down beside her, angled slightly away. He didn't want to appear
      confrontational.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was my fault, Hermione." Draco's voice wasn't soothing,
      didn't sound comforting. Just stating a fact. "I was in command. I
      gave the order."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I should have known. I knew something was wrong." Draco saw
      that Harry walking over towards them. "I knew I'd seen that map
      before. It was on the news." Her voice was quivering.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We all knew something was wrong. I felt it. And it came down to
      a choice. In many ways it's just the counter to my speech after the
      Purple/Green War. These things happen, and just like we shouldn't
      beat ourselves up if we die in war..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have less tolerance for murder than death," she glared at him
      angrily. "And what happened to '<em class="calibre7">save them all</em>',
      Draco?'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's the standard we aspire to," Draco said softly. "But it's
      an impossible standard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was walking over towards them, and Professor Lockhart had
      come down from the spectator area. They were both converging on
      Draco and Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco ignored that, and continued talking "We didn't know what
      the target was. Shooting it down was a risk. Not shooting it down
      was a <em class="calibre7">different</em> risk. There were no certainties. I
      <em class="calibre7">knew</em> that. The cost of being wrong differed, mainly. I
      couldn't save everyone and that eats at me, a little. But it's only
      because I messed up. Better to do it now, during a simulation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione wasn't quite crying, but her eyes weren't dry. Draco
      felt a spark of rage at Harry. <em class="calibre7">He should have known she'd take
      this badly</em>. Most of the team wasn't taking it well – losing
      had that effect on teams – but Hermione felt it deeply. "If I'd
      killed that many people in real life, I think I'd be hurt. But I
      can't really feel it. The fact that it upsets you shows you are a
      good person. Better than me." Draco put his arm around Hermione's
      shoulder and squeezed, once.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We should have been able to save everyone," Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It wasn't a fair test," Professor Lockhart said, staring over
      the heads of Hermione and Draco. "For a number of reasons, but I
      would say mainly that in terrible situations terrible things
      happen. And I cannot find it in me to blame people for making the
      decision that keeps them out of danger. Even if the danger was
      imaginary."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked uncomfortable, and Draco glanced around the room.
      Blaise and Gregory were still yelling, and Neville and Daphne were
      standing in front of the big map, talking with the Professors. The
      map showed the positions of the brooms during the attack, right as
      the pair had broken off from the <em class="calibre7">Doppelganger Defense.</em>
      Neville pointed out a gap that could have bought them some time,
      another few seconds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory had stormed away from Blaise and walked over to Daphne,
      and said "How could you not contact them?" finger pointing
      accusingly at her chest. If she'd been a boy, Gregory would have
      poked her. Draco felt sure that Gregory didn't really feel guilty,
      but in his mind Gregory had lost and he was lashing out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nobody knows, Gregory." Harry said firmly. "Nobody knows. This
      was real. It really happened, pretty much like the simulation
      said." Everyone had stopped arguing and turned to Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Obviously it's more complicated and didn't involve magic. But
      the sequence of events is pretty close. You have a crew dealing
      with harassing brooms, and brooms that color switch, and then a few
      details get confused and events spiral out of control. I wanted to
      witness how it happened, so I could learn from their mistake. Maybe
      I shouldn't have done this. I didn't realize it would hit so hard.
      I'm sorry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There was no right answer," Draco said. "I was just telling
      Hermione that. If I'd been wrong the other way, we would have all
      died."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville spoke up, "What happened? I mean, something weird
      happened."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"4474 was renumbered to 4131 automatically by the simulation. I
      changed the number on you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's cheating," Neville said, over the other protesting
      voices, but Harry just talked over them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, yes. But that's necessary for the fleet to talk to each
      other. If you don't renumber, then you'll refer to 4474 and the
      other ships will know it as their number. There was an
      announcement, but it was in the middle of other things. I didn't
      expect anyone to notice, and you didn't. People think they notice
      everything, but you each had a task and with the stress you
      filtered out the routine background announcements to focus on the
      threats. You say its cheating, but you didn't really understand the
      system the simulation used. Not that you necessarily should have,
      but if you had asked it would have been explained."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not fair," said Blaise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There have been studies where they ask people to count the
      number of times a sports team tosses a ball around a circle. Most
      people get the number right, but don't even notice the person in
      the background dressed as a gorilla that comes out and does a
      little dance," said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When did the announcement happen?" Daphne asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"During the request for the P-3, shortly after the flight took
      off. Later on Gregory keyed in the the number which brought up the
      wrong information, since 4474 now referred to a different plane.
      Hermione used her wand to pick out the correct plane..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At the last one Hermione wiped her eyes and a look of despair
      came across her face. "I wasn't looking for the contact number.
      Just the altitude. I didn't think to check..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry interrupted her, rather than let her continue to blame
      herself. "Everyone knew something was wrong, and didn't have time
      to figure out why. <em class="calibre7">By that point, you had already lost</em>.
      Draco might have picked the right solution by accident but that
      would just be luck."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Lockhart nodded and his voice came out low, like a
      growl. "That's a rather brutal lesson. But correct. You lost when
      the situation became something beyond your understanding." He
      paused, then suddenly spoke in a normal voice. "But no harm done!
      That's why we have these lessons! Very commendable, Mr.
      Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry paused as the last House Elf disappeared. There was a
      small table set up with assorted meats, cheeses and breads, as well
      as a bowl of fresh salad and pitchers of tea. A working lunch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry kept talking. "Compared to most students and Muggles you
      are all battle hardened professionals, but so was the original
      crew. <em class="calibre7">They</em> argued amongst themselves, possibly even broke
      military discipline. They knew they were confused, just like you.
      Already you are so much further ahead than from last year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We didn't have time," Daphne's voice was cold, accusing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Such is realism," Harry shot back, then grimaced. "I don't want
      to talk about solutions to this particular problem in general, I
      just want to hear about what you were thinking as it went on. In
      wars, lots of people die when you get into situations like this,
      where people feel threatened and lash out. Muggle Wars kill the
      innocent much more often than the soldier, but I'm sure it happens
      in Wizarding Wars as well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked around to the Wizarding born. Draco nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not as bad." said Professor Lockhart, "Wizards typically
      see their victims, but curses still miss and the Killing Curse
      always finds a victim..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco saw that Hermione had calmed down. She hadn't spoken
      yet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, I just want to see what we learned. This is a hard problem.
      You lost the simulation because several improbable factors
      happened. None of them were rare, but put together it built up a
      world view that was easy to get wrong. The actual crew got it wrong
      in the real world, and they had months of training, not a few
      evenings scattered over six weeks. So, that's the problem. Let's
      discuss what happened, exactly, for at least half an hour and
      <em class="calibre7">only then</em> see if we can figure out how to solve it."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco sat in the Slytherin common room, facing the roaring fire.
      They'd talked about the battle for about an hour, everyone
      eventually grabbing some food. After they'd ended the session Draco
      had come back and spent the rest of his day sitting. Lodged in
      front of the fire thinking, pausing only to eat dinner. He'd
      considered today's lessons and compared them to the past two years.
      People came and went in the common room, Draco barely noticed.
      Draco only glanced up at Gregory when he said it was time for
      dinner.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco shook his head and fell back into thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hours later, well, after the sun went down, Draco went to his
      room, got a small scroll, and sat down at his desk. He sharpened a
      quill and started to write.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The keys to defeating a clever enemy are several
      fold:</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">There must be some information that the enemy does not know,
      or knows incorrectly.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">If there is a solution that the enemy can spot, you can
      still make it difficult by creating so many possibilities that they
      cannot be evaluated in time. Suppose there are two key facts that
      the enemy needs to piece together. Even if they know both, if they
      have to compare 50 facts it may be impossible to link them. And if
      the fact has to link through an intermediate fact, it becomes even
      harder.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco considered this. Harry had full advantage of the methods,
      but Harry's lesson on maths had been revealing. Sometime you had to
      have a key insight, and how difficult that is depends on how many
      facts you have to compare to reach it. If you have just two facts,
      you can draw a line between them in only a single way. If you have
      three facts you draw three lines, it makes a triangle. If you have
      four facts, you draw a square, but you can also connect the
      corners. Six possibilities. Five facts and you have a pentagon with
      five internal lines. The number of lines grows faster than the
      number of dots. And that's just if you have to compare <em class="calibre7">two</em>
      facts. If you have to group three facts together, you matched pairs
      of lines. Draco's Arithmancy wasn't up to the task of figuring out
      the exact number, but it didn't matter. If you got to even fifteen
      or twenty facts, it would become impossible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Too much information can, paradoxically, make decisions less
      obvious.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Motives and Goals are key facts, easily hidden in some
      cases.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Even in a puzzle, an ambush is the best way to go.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Coupled with stress and time pressure, the enemy will
      discover themselves in a situation where they can only win by
      luck.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Try to reduce your enemy's knowledge of their current
      situation.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Ideally, take action to counter luck and make it so
      that</em> <em class="calibre7"><span>either</span></em> <em class="calibre7">obvious decision is the
      wrong one.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco glanced down at the paper, read over it once, then
      crumpled it up. He stared at the ceiling for a few moments, then
      nodded to himself. Draco walked back to the common room and tossed
      the crumpled scroll into the fire and sat back down into his
      chair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For the first time all day he smiled.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Author's Note</strong> - As several people on r/hpmor
      noticed, this scenario is (loosely) based on the <em class="calibre7">USS
      Vincennes</em> which shot down Iran Air Flight 655 over the Straits
      of Hormuz on July 3rd, 1988. The incident is modeled in "Sources of
      Power: How People Make Decisions" by Gary Klein, which goes into
      more detail than the Wikipedia account.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I have not independently confirmed the details provided by
      Klein. There are considerable differences between his review and
      the information presented on Wikipedia. My presentation is based on
      one version of the facts, facts that were hotly debated for
      years.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I have changed some details (with an eye towards simplification,
      but also to make the situation more stressful). In the real world
      the <em class="calibre7">Vincennes</em> was responding to a hostile attack on an
      allied ship at the time, so open hostilities were occurring. The
      severity of this attack is under dispute. Others (including some in
      the US Navy) believe the Captain of the Vincennes over-reacted, but
      for purposes of the simulation, Harry simulated a true threat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The AEGIS Targeting computer labelled 4474 "presumed hostile"
      because it had delayed from its scheduled departure time. Further
      confusing the issue was that the computer re-labeled the target
      from 4474 to 4131 shortly after take off and in the confusion most
      of the crew did not hear this announcement. If anybody did hear, it
      apparently did not register. Which means that some crew typed in
      the number 4474 on their consoles and reported the airspeed
      indicators of the <span>new</span> target 4474, an A-6 which was
      descending and speeding up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Taking all this (mis)information together, some crew interpreted
      the commercial airliner as "making an attack run" against the ship.
      Iran Air Flight 655 did have a civilian transponder code, but the
      Iranian Military sometimes spoofed civilian transponders on their
      military planes and had done that recently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There is still some question as to why the commercial airliner
      did not respond to clarify. The Vincennes requested contact on
      civilian channels (3 times, according to Wikipedia), but apparently
      did not have the communication capacity to contact commercial air
      traffic control to ask them to relay the message. (According to
      Klein). Why IA 655 did not respond is a mystery.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Records show that the crew was divided before the captain gave
      the order to fire.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The entire incident - from takeoff until the <em class="calibre7">USS
      Vincenness</em> fired - lasted eight minutes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">None of the 290 people onboard IA 655 survived.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
