<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2 - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 51: Good Words, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s19" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 51: Good Words</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">March 10th</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry woke with a start at Hermione's touch on his shoulder,
      lifting his face off the desk while blindly groping for the grey
      knobby wand. Hermione had already rolled it well away from his
      hand. After the brief second of shock, Harry relaxed and mumbled
      <em class="calibre7">sorry</em>. He rubbed his hands through his hair while his
      elbows and shoulders made strained clicking and snapping
      sounds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sleeping face down on a desk was suboptimal. Harry reached for
      the wand, stopping his hand a few inches short of it. Nothing
      happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not that he'd expected it to. <em class="calibre7">By this point repeating that
      experiment is desperation, not science,</em> Ravenclaw said
      accusingly. With a sigh Harry pocketed the wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, you need to get ready, " she said. "It's time." Harry
      didn't say anything. He bit back all the words he felt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">It's a waste of time.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">This is a mere status display, like self-flagellation among
      the more extreme religious sects. But here we just mentally beat
      ourselves up instead of suffering physical damage.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I need to finish my investigation, to find out if there is
      going to be another attack.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Private grief counts just as much as grief in
      public.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">All Harry's inner voices were speaking at once, a cacophony of
      jumbled thoughts trying to drown each other out. Hufflepuff spoke.
      <em class="calibre7">Humans can't live like that, remember?</em> and Harry's mind
      went silent for almost a full minute.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione had on her formal robes, and if she hadn't slept much
      Harry certainly couldn't tell by looking at her. Hermione appeared
      to need less sleep than most people, although she still got tired.
      Harry suspected that in stressful situations she suffered no ill
      long term effects from having adrenaline coursing through her
      blood, so that she could stay awake much longer than a typical
      teenage girl. Her hair flowed smoothly as she turned her head to
      look around Harry's study, full of transcripts, notes, charts, and
      quickly drawn timelines. New documents, as the scorch marks on the
      walls and semi-melted shelving had been hurriedly replaced.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Even at times like this, she looks beautiful.</em> Harry
      quickly pushed that thought aside. He couldn't afford a sudden
      burst of puberty. Not now. He reached for his new set of formal
      robes to change, they both knew they'd be late if he didn't
      hurry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione had walked over to a corkboard that Harry had used to
      pin notes and examined it carefully while Harry slipped into his
      formal robes. Times ran along the top from afternoon of Sunday
      March 6th until Monday Evening. Persons of Interest ran down the
      side. Harry's timeline was simple. He'd been smuggled out of
      Hogwarts, unconscious. Hermione double checked the information on
      her timeline, if anything was wrong it might mess up the
      investigation. But it was perfect. Most of the timelines were being
      filled in as part of the investigation. Draco's position at times
      had been recorded, several appearances in the hallway, his meeting
      with Hermione, there was a seperate detailed timeline on the Battle
      of Peverell and lots of lines and question marks there, ending with
      the discovery of Draco's body. There were large gaps.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Any ideas?" Hermione asked, still focused on the corkboard. She
      wanted to apologize again, for not stopping things when she had a
      chance, but Harry had simply shrugged and said it was his
      fault.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've pinned down a lot of the how." Harry's voice sounded
      normal to himself. He wondered if it sounded that way to Hermione,
      or if it sounded colder. He'd had to summon the cold more and more,
      these last few days. "There are still some puzzles, and a lot of
      things that confuse me. But mainly ... I don't get the why. After
      the ... After we're done we'll go talk to Lockhart."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can call it a funeral, Harry" she said quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not sure he's dead, Hermione," Harry said as he slid into
      his robes. "I mean, it's amazing Draco survived as long he did. But
      since he did, he had the near perfect mix of tools to fake his own
      death, and that can't be an accident..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione must have heard the swish of his robes, or some other
      indication that he was finished and dressed, because she spun
      around to glare at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry James Potter. You will <em class="calibre7">not</em> mention anything to
      that effect at the funeral. Imagine what it would do to everyone.
      <em class="calibre7">To Narcissa</em>. Not to mention the Longbottoms. Outside of
      this room you will not breathe a word of Draco being alive until
      you have solid proof."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her voice echoed throughout the room for a second, and then she
      continued, quieter. "Better for everyone to think he's dead and
      then get a shocked when he re-appears. Far better than false hope.
      Believe me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, accepting the rebuke even though he'd had no
      intention of telling anyone. <em class="calibre7">I'd just been discussing the
      problem. In any case, he attacked me,</em> Harry thought, but he
      recognized this as one of those times when other people would just
      call him insensitive if he discussed his thoughts. They left his
      study, and Harry continued to review what he knew.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had already rejected many hypothesis. The obvious one was
      that this was an attack against him, but Draco could have done that
      without attacking Peverell. At much less risk. Had the point been
      for Draco to fake his death? Why? Draco could have done that much
      easier, during a break from school. Harry turned this over and
      again it felt like he was missing information. He kept coming back
      to the fact that Draco hadn't killed him, but attacked him. Harry
      shook his head. He needed another angle of attack.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Consider the equipment Draco used, ignoring the goblin forged
      items for now. Where had Draco gotten all the potions? They seemed
      excessive, but then Harry realized he didn't really know how much
      these things cost. Still, beyond Draco's capability to brew.
      <em class="calibre7">Had he contacted Snape? If so, he could have an arsenal of
      potions.</em> After a moment or two of thought, Harry shook his
      head. Unlikely, and a complexity penalty to boot. <em class="calibre7">Just assume
      that Draco bought everything, he was rich</em>. Harry frowned and
      tried to consider another direction to view the problem from.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Hermione walked in silence, descending down the
      staircases, past the burnt rooms and missing tapestries, until they
      arrived at the main level of Hogwarts and joined the procession of
      students and teachers just as they headed outside.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Overhead the sky was a bright, beautiful blue, with not a cloud
      in sight, and flocks of birds frolicked in the spring air.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Students sniffled. Most Hufflepuffs were openly crying. Vincent
      had stood next to the rejuvenated Augusta Longbottom, who could
      have passed for a fifth year, and Neville's parents. They had
      cycled through shock, confusion, grief and anger as the ceremony
      went on before finally breaking down into quiet sobs during Pomona
      Sprout's eulogy. Few of the words registered with Harry, even
      though he'd stopped thinking about the investigation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now that services were over students milled around, hugging and
      talking in low murmurs. Professor Slughorn, in resplendent black
      robes, silk and flowing like water around his form, spoke clearly
      above the crowd.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Slytherins."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slughorn stood immobile for a second then turned and headed back
      indoors, away from the crowd and the grass and the rest of the
      mourners. As he turned he pulled his cowl over his round face.
      Professor Slughorn walked at a deliberate pace, and the students of
      his house fell in behind him, a solemn procession. Harry looked
      towards Hermione, who'd gone over to say a few words to Alice
      Longbottom. He didn't want to join her, didn't want to face them.
      Harry stood torn between the two groups. <em class="calibre7">I don't have the
      words, I don't have any power here.</em> Hermione motioned for him
      to go with a small gesture.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Vincent stood talking to Gregory, and then they both joined the
      procession. Professor Slughorn stood at the entrance back into
      Hogwarts. As each students passed by they covered their head with
      their hood, reminding Harry of medieval monks. Harry made his
      decision, falling in beside Gregory and Vincent, pulling the hood
      over his head as he passed into Hogwarts. They walked silently,
      although not down into the dungeons. The procession veered off, and
      Harry realized they were heading to the Muggle Studies lecture
      hall. All Slytherins walked together, each alone in thought for the
      entire descent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They arrived back into the large hall. The map for the Muggle
      Naval simulation stood, empty and solemn behind the lecture podium.
      The students lined up in a large semi-circle around the podium,
      squeezing in, with almost no shifting and only the occasional cough
      or noise as Harry filed in and took the next available space. Harry
      stood silent, wondering at how easily everyone coordinated. The
      instinct to blend in, to follow the crowd turned this into a solemn
      event and Harry didn't want to be the one to ruin it. The first
      years came and took the center area in front of the podium.
      Professor Slughorn had apparently fallen in behind them once they'd
      entered Hogwarts. He entered the room last. No, next to last as
      Narcissa Malfoy stepped foot in the room, in simple black robes,
      her face still covered by the veil she'd worn through the funeral.
      <em class="calibre7">Well,</em> thought Harry, <em class="calibre7">he'd invited all Slytherins.</em>
      Narcissa hesitated, and stayed by the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Slughorn walked to the podium, trailed by a walking
      chest that Harry hadn't seen before.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He stepped behind the lecturn and threw back his hood, and for
      the first time Harry could see the pained look on his face.
      Professor Slughorn had said a few words during the funerals, he'd
      praised Neville and Draco with a calm ferocity during his brief
      eulogy, but he'd shown no grief. Now he wiped his cheeks and
      motioned for the students to reveal their faces and Harry pulled
      back his hood, he felt ashamed at how many other wet faces there
      were in the crowd, and his cheeks flushed red.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Slughorn opened his chest, which had stopped beside
      him, and pulled out a bottle and a goblet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This wine was a gift from a former student, one of four casks
      liberated from Grindelwald's cellars shortly after Headmaster
      Dumbledore defeated him, and on a happier day I'd tell you the
      story of how I got a cask, but it doesn't matter now." Professor
      Slughorn pulled out several more bottles. "I told myself that I'd
      only drink it when I accomplished something great. So I've been
      waiting. I don't particularly want to keep them anymore, and I can
      think of nothing better than to drink them right now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Normally, the students would have broken into small
      conversations, gasped at the implications, but most everyone
      remained silent and the few students that started to say something
      stopped quickly when the glares of the others silenced them.
      Professor Slughorn dramatically pulled out a scroll out from inside
      his robes and rolled it open. He examined it for a second, then
      sighed and shook his head before rolling the scroll up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I had a prepared speech, but there were many kind words said at
      the funerals," said Professor Slughorn, carefully opening the first
      bottle and pouring some into his goblet, "and there were many true
      words, and they were lovely. But there are some words that should
      only be said in private."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He took a deep drink of the wine, and Harry saw his hands
      shaking as he took the first sip. Horace Slughorn swallowed the
      wine in a greedy gulp, paused for a second, and then slammed the
      goblet back onto the podium.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Slytherin is the House of Failure," he said in a booming voice
      as he poured another glass of wine.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have this wine because I have done nothing of note, and I
      have done nothing of note because the vast majority of my ambitions
      were petty. I only had one great ambition: to mentor great
      students, you see. To live through their victories. And I have
      taught and nurtured talent, wonderful talent. I would brag and
      gloat on them, and wheedle my students into becoming more. They say
      that Slytherin is the House of Ambition, but to have ambitions
      means chasing your dreams. And many of us never catch them. But
      what is worse, what is oh so much worse is to accomplish everything
      you ever wanted."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then you wake up one morning and discover that you only possess
      things you <em class="calibre7">used</em> to want," he said, then drank a second cup
      of wine, and this time his hands were steady.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wanted to mentor the Greatest Slytherin since Salazar and I
      have now failed three times, in three different ways. For David
      Monroe I was just a callow new Potions Professor, and I had no idea
      what he would become. I missed that opportunity, so I kept my eyes
      focused on the next great one. And I spotted the next great
      fighting wizard and poured my energy into helping him. <em class="calibre7">He</em>
      went on to murder so many people, and I didn't see it coming. And
      to my shame, I did nothing to stop the monster I'd help
      create."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Slughorn paused to drink another cup of wine, and
      finally the room gasped, as the implication was recognized. Harry
      started to say something, to try and tell Professor Slughorn that
      it wasn't his fault, that nothing could have fixed Voldemort, to
      ease the man's pain. But he dare not reveal what he knew, and if
      Professor Slughorn wanted to get drunk and drown his sorrows after
      a funeral, Harry understood. Well, he didn't understand the impulse
      but recognized that it was a common - even typical - response to
      death.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And now, again, I recognize a student who had drive and an
      ambition - a worthy ambition, not like mine. A student born into a
      Noble House but nobody <em class="calibre7">nobody</em> is born into greatness. You
      become great by work, courage, cleverness and yes, by ambition. And
      now I've failed a 3rd time. Because today I buried Draco Malfoy. To
      Draco," he said, raising his goblet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To Draco," the room said in a chant, except for a quiet mewling
      sob that came from the doorway. Professor Slughorn drained his
      goblet and then pulled out a set of glasses, small thin glasses
      that Harry associated with champagne. "Does anyone else wish to say
      anything?" Professor Slughorn asked, as he poured some wine.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory stepped forward and took the first proffered glass, then
      turned to face the rest of the students, who fell silent again.
      "When Dad explained to me, how he worked for Lucius Malfoy. I ... I
      was appalled. To be in someone's shadow, to be someone's
      <em class="calibre7">assistant</em>? To never be known for what <em class="calibre7">I</em> did. But
      as I got to know Draco, it didn't seem bad. He was my friend and
      Who wouldn't help their friend? But still, I could assist him while
      being my own person, flying for England in the World Cup," Gregory
      said, as the crowd gave a small cheer with a few scattered
      whistles. "I could help him, but the name of Gregory Goyle would
      also be known throughout the world, while Draco Malfoy's name would
      be relegated to hushed whispers in political circles."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory paused, and when he spoke again his voice broke. "And
      now nobody will remember him, and <em class="calibre7">my fame</em> will outlive
      <em class="calibre7">his</em>. And it tastes like ashes in my mouth."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory quickly drank the wine, face scrunched up, and then set
      down the glass on the podium. Professor Slughorn refilled it and
      handed it back to Gregory who had a confused look on his face until
      Professor Slughorn motioned that he was to hand the glass to
      someone else. Gregory stood there for a moment, looking around the
      room, but Blaise Zabini stepped forward and extended his hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory passed the wine to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought I had a rivalry with Draco; I was the glorious
      underdog fighting the scion of House Malfoy. I could see how we'd
      spar, over the years, but I'd subtly outmaneuver him to become
      Minister of Magic. I'd save the day. I'd get the girl. And now
      ...," Blaise's voice trailed off for a second, and he almost took a
      sip of the wine before quickly lowering the glass, "... now I know
      that when he invited me into his circle, it wasn't just a gambit,
      it was sincere. Because I don't know what he was doing, but it was
      bigger than me. I was playing a child's game. Draco probably
      thought it was cute. To Draco."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To Draco," the room answered, as Blaise took just a sip of the
      wine, then held the glass out. Hestia Carrow took it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why should he have gotten someone back, when I lost so much?"
      she said through tears, looking directly at Narcissa Malfoy. "I'm
      sorry. He got you back, even though it was more his family's fault
      than mine, but he came out unscathed. Maybe that was just another
      mask..." she took a sip of wine before remembering to add "To
      Draco," and while the room responded she passed the glass along
      then went over to Narcissa, who spoke to her quietly, before they
      embraced. Professor Slughorn had poured a few more glasses, which
      were slowly making their way around the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Daphne Greengrass held up a glass, and the room shifted its
      attention to her. Harry looked at her, at her soft green cheeks
      that had stayed dry throughout this entire day. <em class="calibre7">She really is
      lovely</em>, Harry thought. "It is right and proper for us to
      remember our friend. Draco would have wanted us to remember Neville
      Longbottom, too. Draco plotted with him. I suppose that's obvious.
      I thought he was plotting with me, too, but I guess not, since...
      Draco once called Neville his conscience, the only one that he felt
      was brave enough to publicly call Draco out if he thought he was
      wrong. That may be silly, but I was thinking back to last year, to
      the troll attack, and while the rest of us were frozen in the Great
      Hall only Harry tried to rescue Hermione ... and only Neville stood
      up to him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And now there are such terrible rumours floating around, and
      some people are saying Draco attacked Hogwarts, and some are saying
      that he saved it, and all I can think of is ... <em class="calibre7">Whatever Draco
      was planning, Neville thought it was a good idea, too.</em> To
      Draco and Neville."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone said "To Draco," but only about half of the room added
      "and Neville," Harry noted, while reflecting on Daphne's speech.
      When Harry interviewed her yesterday Daphne had told him about the
      meeting in January, when Draco proposed going after the Hall of
      Prophecies. No doubt whatever Draco had told Neville in their
      private sessions had been very convincing. Draco had probably dosed
      himself with <em class="calibre7">Veritaserum ...</em> but that still didn't explain
      what Draco had planned, why he hadn't just killed Harry if he'd
      thought he was Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Slughorn had started mingling around the room while
      Daphne spoke, and now he was standing besides Harry. He offered a
      glass of butterbeer, and Harry looked down at it quizzically, his
      train of thought broken.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unless you'd prefer wine?" Slughorn said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, this is fine," Harry replied. <em class="calibre7">I don't need to cloud my
      judgment, especially now.</em> Harry felt the rest of the room
      silence, as glasses stopped moving around and people turned to
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Everyone thinks I can just snap my fingers to fix things," he
      said, haltingly. "Draco knew better. I don't think Slytherin is the
      House of Failure. Humanity is. We get so many things wrong. A
      Muggle Prime Minister once said about America, '<em class="calibre7">That it always
      does the right thing, after it tries every other possibility</em>'
      but it's not just one country. We stumble around, groping in the
      dark without a torch, doing the best we can. Is it any wonder we
      bang our knees or fall down stairs?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry paused. He knew, at some level, that this plot had been
      directed against himself. Harry believed, but couldn't yet prove,
      that Draco may be alive. But if he was alive then he'd certainly
      planned to fake his own death. One of Draco's mantras was that
      <em class="calibre7">A good move has multiple purposes</em> and Harry kicked himself
      for just now realizing that Draco's death had unified House
      Slytherin, and there was no way Harry Potter would splinter them
      apart and undo Draco's (possibly) final plot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There are people who should have seen the attempted theft of
      Merlin's Chalice coming and stopped it. They were caught by
      surprise, and some of them are dead. Maybe I should have seen it
      coming and snapped my fingers, but I don't actually have any
      powers. Draco stumbled into this attack and managed to stop several
      adult wizards. He raised the alarm. He should have run away, but
      <em class="calibre7">he pretended to lose to the attackers</em> and then struck at a
      critical moment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The students nodded, recalling the lesson they'd all learned in
      one form or another from the second defense lecture. Meanwhile,
      part of Harry recoiled at what he was saying. Harry still didn't
      understand all of Draco's plots. Publicly lauding Draco's plot was
      - at the very least - incautious, but it had been several days and
      they'd rounded up all the surviving attackers. Draco's plot had
      taken months to set up, and he couldn't vary it now without
      revealing he was alive. There was a risk in praising Draco. He'd
      set up the chess set where Harry would find it, and the message
      seemed clear. <em class="calibre7">Draco was taking us both out of the
      game.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">But in spite of all that, Harry still considered Draco a friend.
      He'd plot against him, but he couldn't bring himself to sully
      Draco's name. Especially not with Narcissa Malfoy in the room,
      grieving. If nothing else, she was innocent and didn't deserve this
      pain. Harry knew it was irrational to go the extra step and praise
      Draco instead of just mouthing a platitude.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We heard from some Auror's at the funeral, praising Draco and
      Neville. I think when the truth comes out, their names will live
      on. To my friends. To Draco and Neville."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry noticed - as he drank the butter beer - that everyone
      responded "To Draco and Neville." Harry grimaced as he finished the
      glass. Harry knew butter-beer was non-alcoholic, but was it
      supposed to taste more like beer or more like a desert? Not that he
      had much in the way to compare it to. Professor Slughorn took the
      glass back and refilled it, moving among the students.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think Slytherin is the House of Failure," Vincent said.
      "I'm not more successful because I left. Maybe, maybe I failed
      Draco because I left. Not because of Slytherin. He wanted me to go,
      he wanted me to be happy and it cost him. I was supposed to protect
      him and I was gone...I'm so sorry..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory put his arm around Vince's shoulders as he was speaking,
      and hugged him and Lady Malfoy moved to join them. There was a
      silence, not awkward Harry thought, but extended, before a small
      voice said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't want to be in Slytherin, not really." Everyone turned
      to Colin Creevey, who held a glass up high and spoke in a
      surprisingly steady voice for a first year addressing the rest of
      the house.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You were following Harry Potter," chuckled Professor Slughorn.
      "So when ..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No!" Colin said, interrupting. "No. I was trying to follow
      Hermione Granger, but then she switched houses and when I tried to
      switch the Sorting Hat accused me of being too sneaky and sent me
      here..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Colin didn't get to finish, because by the time he'd gotten
      halfway through his sentence Professor Slughorn's chuckles had
      turned into belly laughs and the rest of the room joined in and
      laughed uproariously. Narcissa's laughter sounded pure, like the
      ringing of wind chimes. Harry laughed so hard his throat started
      hurting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It wasn't so bad. I mean, I wasn't treated worse than any other
      first year, which is pretty bad, I guess." The room laughed some
      more at that. "But then came the Purple-Green war, and I know how a
      lot of you felt. Mad that I got to be the General, even though it
      was just random. And then I got murdered. But afterwards, I
      realized something. Harry could have taken over from me any time,
      like Daphne said. He probably should have, he was a better General.
      Harry was being polite, he was holding back."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But Draco treated me just like any other enemy. Draco didn't
      condescend to me, he tried to crush me in every way he knew how and
      <em class="calibre7">Draco got me killed</em>. And then, since it was just a game,
      he came by later and told me that I'd done a good job and gave me
      some advice for next time. Maybe he thought I was a joke, but he
      never treated me like one. To Draco."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pansy Parkinson had raised her glass during Colin's speech. The
      room barely finished "To Draco," when she started talking. Harry
      had spent the latter part of Colin's speech suppressing a cough,
      and now he could no longer help himself and was coughing quite
      loudly, doubled over.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry?" said Gregory, "Do you need some water?" just as the
      fire in his throat spread to his chest and arms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I just..." Harry couldn't finish the sentence before his
      body spasmed with another fit of coughs. Unable to talk, Harry
      started signing with his right hand, getting out B-E-Z before his
      fingers spasmed uncontrollably and he fell to his knees. Harry
      heard several shouts. Professor Slughorn cast a spell Harry
      recognized as a linking spell from the Muggle War Simulation, but
      <em class="calibre7">that didn't make sense</em>. Several students rushed out the
      door or summoned their Patronus to fetch help. Someone was trying
      to push something into his mouth, and Harry opened his eyes to see
      Professor Slughorn looming in front of him, saying something about
      poison.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">But the most likely poisoner would be Slughorn,</em> Harry
      thought. <em class="calibre7">He'd provided the drinks.</em> Harry didn't have fine
      motor control but he jerked his arm and slapped the stone away out
      of Professor Slughorn's hands and screamed <em class="calibre7">No!</em> although it
      came out as a wail.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two seconds later several spells knocked Professor Slughorn to
      the ground beside him, unblocking Harry's line of sight. Professor
      Slughorn raised his wand at Harry but several students rushed
      between them, and he didn't fire. With Slughorn no longer kneeling
      in front of him, Harry could see clear across the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The map on the wall now showed not the standard map for the
      Muggle Naval Simulation, but the room's layout. Names rushed across
      the display. <em class="calibre7">Gregory Goyle</em> and <em class="calibre7">Vincent Crabbe -</em>
      both written in elegant calligraphy - moved from besides the podium
      towards <em class="calibre7">Tom Riddle</em>. <em class="calibre7">Goyle and Crabbe</em> moved away
      from <em class="calibre7">Narcissa Malfoy</em>, who stood off in the corner of the
      room. The poison made thinking difficult, nothing made sense and
      then Harry saw the real Narcissa in the corner of his eye, facing
      away from him, unmoving. Staring up at the map on the wall and he
      focused on the name <em class="calibre7">Tom Riddle</em> and in a flash <em class="calibre7">Harry
      understood.</em> Vincent and Gregory were pouring spells into
      Horace Slughorn, although he appeared to already be unconscious.
      <em class="calibre7">(That doesn't make sense,</em> thought Ravenclaw, <em class="calibre7">a
      Professor should be able to withstand two second years</em> while
      the rest of the voices were screaming to Harry that he was
      dying).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Narcissa said "No," in a quiet voice, lifting her veil to get a
      better look at the wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's vision started contracting, degrees falling away as his
      focus narrowed. His eyes stung from the smoke. Harry could see foam
      falling from his mouth to the floor. He heard Hermione's shout and
      the scream of a Phoenix. Narcissa Malfoy answered with a screaming
      <em class="calibre7">No!</em> as she whirled and fired a curse as his vision faded
      completely.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
