<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2 - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 33: Portkeys, Trains and Carriages, Part 2, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 33: Portkeys, Trains and Carriages, Pt 2</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"It is a common mistake to glorify those you have tricked,
      to imagine that you have toppled their cleverness by your own
      subtlety. Arrogance leads men to imagine their adversaries great,
      in retrospect." - Lucius Malfoy<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"And then what happened?" asked Professor Lockhart. Their
      carriage hit a bump right as he spoke, and he jostled up against
      Horace Slughorn's enormous belly. The short trip from the train to
      their quarters should only take a few more minutes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then the little bastard spewed his infernal drink right into my
      eyes and coughed for several minutes. 'Swallowed the wrong way,' he
      said. And apologized profusely, but of course he'd just been trying
      to keep me from peeking into his mind. The funny thing is, I don't
      think the boy's had <em class="calibre7">Occlumenency</em> training, although with a
      Malfoy who knows?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gilderoy smiled broadly at that. "So, you think he just guessed
      or <em class="calibre7">suspected</em> you might invade his mind? Seems paranoid. At
      least young Draco has learned my lessons about ambushes, but
      still... all signs point to him being somewhat estranged from
      Narcissa."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Estranged or not, she may still have taught him. Assuming it
      isn't a ruse. Anyway, of course I accepted his apology and went
      back and cleaned myself up. And while I was doing that he calmly
      explained that he'd hired Grindelwald as a tutor for history,
      Transfiguration, and what not, and that they'd gone into business
      together. He wouldn't go into details, so I suspect it's something
      not-quite-legitimate, but probably not terrible either. He also
      mentioned seeing your date with Narcissa..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And did you? Peek into his mind?" Gilderoy asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No need to be so touchy and try to change the subject, my dear
      fellow. I have no idea how young Malfoy got the impression that I
      was courting his mother – not that it wouldn't be pleasant – but I
      have a reasonable understanding of how I am viewed by Witches. I
      don't begrudge you the experience."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Lockhart merely crossed his arms across his chest and
      cocked his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Erm. Well, yes, of course I peeked into his mind. The
      Headmistress asked and I am but her humble servant. But I was only
      looking for anything untoward, not a full scale rummaging around.
      In any case, his story about Grindelwald is true. What little I saw
      before getting a face full of that drink – you'd be surprised how
      s<em class="calibre7">ticky</em> it is, who drinks sticky liquids? - confirmed it.
      The business is inconsequential. No, that's not the worrisome
      part."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gilderoy started tapping his foot softly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, the part that worries me is the gaps in young Malfoy's
      memory."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gaps?" said Lockhart, alarmed "How many? When?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You should know that's not how it works, Gilderoy. At least
      twice over the holidays and who knows how many prior to that.
      Sloppy work, too. Imprecise. Of course Draco just chalked it up to
      tiredness, but he's worried about them at some level."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The carriage pulled up to a stop, they were right outside the
      front gate of Hogwarts. They could see the students just starting
      to walk on campus, Hagrid and the non-Heads of House leading them
      along.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And are you going to tell the Headmistress?" asked Professor
      Lockhart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Horace Slughorn pulled out a handkerchief and started rubbing
      his forehead. "Well, I have to. Part of the job."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Slughorn started to ease his way out of the carriage,
      but the Offense Professor put his hand his arm. "I have a …
      <em class="calibre7">confession</em> … that may affect your decision. Hear me
      out."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva McGonagall stared at Professor Slughorn. "Are you not
      feeling well, Horace?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps something I ate disagreed with me." Professor Slughorn
      could see the flicker of disapproval before the Headmistress
      controlled her emotions. No, she'd never make a good
      <em class="calibre7">Occlumens</em>. In fact Professor Slughorn had eaten lightly at
      dinner, but he'd snacked constantly on the train trip up while
      hosting his little get-together. He stared back across the
      Headmistress's desk. She looked less fierce than last year, as if
      the toll of the job had washed over her and she'd started to relax
      into it. The office looked mostly as it had during his earlier
      tenure as Potions Professor, except the one giant frame behind the
      desk, labeled "Albus Dumbledore." Other portraits had been shifted
      to make space for the latest addition to the wall, but unlike the
      rest of the portraits, there was nothing to see.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just a blank canvas. The sight unnerved him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well then, about Draco Malfoy. Anything of note? Should we be
      worried about him? He's very ambitious, more so than most of your
      House..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Minerva, all of my students - make that <em class="calibre7">all students</em> -
      are ambitious. Everyone dreams of being the next Merlin or Idlewind
      or Flamel or whoever kids emulate these days. What sets Draco apart
      from the rest of them aren't his dreams but the dedication and
      training to follow through. I never thought I'd say this, but he'd
      make an excellent Hufflepuff. Don't fear Draco's desires, admire
      his execution and tenacity. That boy has steel in his spine,
      probably because of his father's murder. But, since you asked. He's
      not getting into anything <em class="calibre7">nefarious</em> with Grindelwald. It's
      a poorly thought out business. I personally think that he's going
      to take a bath on this investment but Draco isn't going in with any
      illusions. He thinks making money will be nip and tuck, but even if
      he lost everything he's put into it – a considerable sum – he's
      gotten private tutoring with an excellent Wizard and turned the
      entire Jugson clan into an ally."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's rather ... involved for a twelve year old."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He also views it as an investment to help him understand Muggle
      business practices. I don't really understand, perhaps Professor
      Asimov would have better insights. Remember, Madame, <em class="calibre7">A great
      plot threatens multiple victories</em> It sounds better in the
      original Latin, but certainly the most basic tenet of Salazar's
      cunning was written over Malfoy's first bassinet. As far as Draco
      is concerned, <em class="calibre7">he's already profited</em>. He might win several
      more times over."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmistress considered this, but she seemed satisfied. "I
      see what you mean about ambition versus execution. And what about
      his date with Miss Granger?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now now, Minerva, you <em class="calibre7">said</em> you were investigating Dark
      Secrets and didn't want to know about minor peccadilloes, didn't
      you? I didn't delve into his memories like a voracious
      grubworm..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva sighed. "No, of course not. I just don't want to see
      that girl get hurt."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Slughorn got up. "Of course not, she's charming. And
      while I happen to know that he had a few ulterior motives for the
      date - No, I didn't see that in his mind, but I do keep myself
      informed - but it was just a date. If the lad isn't smitten yet,
      he's well on his way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, well. Do keep me informed about Draco. And the rest of
      your House. I don't want to expel another single student, is that
      clear?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Slughorn agreed, said his goodbye and showed himself
      out. He started the long walk back to his quarters,
      <em class="calibre7">Occlumency</em> barriers up even though alone. Perhaps he
      should have told Minerva about the gaps in Draco's memory. He would
      have, except that Horace Slughorn had been doing digging of his
      own. He'd wondered where the two most famous second years, students
      who should have rightfully been guided and mentored by himself,
      spent their days. It certainly wasn't in classes. He'd been shocked
      at the amount of power wielded by those two, but months of quiet
      talk and letters had confirmed it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Potter practically ran Hogwarts and Peverell, albeit from behind
      the scenes, and had major influence in the government. Horace
      Slughorn knew any secret he told the Headmistress would be heard by
      Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And that wouldn't do, because of the <em class="calibre7">other</em> worrisome
      thing he'd glimpsed in Draco Malfoy's mind. Despite Lucius Malfoy's
      death, <em class="calibre7">Legilmency</em> against a Malfoy remained an enormous
      risk but Draco's actions looked alarming enough to risk. So he'd
      agreed to the Headmistresses request and asked point blank what
      Draco did during his break right as he'd probed Draco's mind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco had instantly thought of his actions with Grindelwald, but
      they weren't his primary reaction. No, the clearest image was Draco
      locked inside his own vault, writing a letter to Harry Potter.
      Professor Slughorn could see Draco scratching the words onto the
      parchment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">And if you are Voldemort – or should I say, Tom Riddle -
      ...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The thought had stunned Horace Slughorn more than the barrage of
      soda hitting his face a second later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">How had Draco Malfoy worked out that Tom Riddle was
      Voldemort</em>? The name Tom Riddle meant nothing to someone
      Draco's age. There were probably only a handful of people who'd
      made the connection, not counting those who understood only a few
      seconds before death. He himself had taken years to piece it
      together, then decades to finally admit it to himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And a twelve year old boy had solved it ... in a year or two at
      most.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It made Draco's other suspicion <em class="calibre7">much</em> more
      plausible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Horace Slughorn never planned to feed any information about
      Draco Malfoy back to Harry Potter. At least, not until he finished
      his own investigations. He'd only shared his secret to Professor
      Lockhart as insurance. When operating against Voldemort (or any
      other Dark Wizard) it didn't do to keep <em class="calibre7">too</em> many secrets.
      That made you much more valuable dead than alive, or got yourself
      tortured for information. No, best to give a dedicated and
      persistent opponent an easier way to discover your secrets. Also,
      if his lie to the Headmistress did get revealed, he'd be able to
      spin it innocently if he'd shared it with someone else.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Maybe not enough to save his job, but enough to keep his
      reputation. He consulted with another Professor, at least.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Surprisingly, Gilderoy's confession provided a compelling excuse
      to lie to the Headmistress in good faith. It had been such a lucky
      stroke, Horace wondered that he hadn't accidentally spilled
      <em class="calibre7">Felix Felicis</em> into his tea. Now even if the worst happened
      and the Headmistress caught him in a lie, Horace Slughorn would
      have a reason that even she'd balk at condemning. And an ally in
      Professor Lockhart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That young fool desperately wanted to hunt a Dark Wizard.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
