<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2 - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 59: Testament, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s27" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 59: Testament</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">For the second time in his life Harry sat in the Malfoy vault in
      Gringotts. This time nobody made him wait.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There had been rigorous security, of course. He'd been wanded,
      probed and studied, but allowed to keep his wand and pouch. Mad-Eye
      Moody had made it clear: under no condition would Harry Potter be
      left defenceless after two ambushes in as many weeks. He'd demanded
      that each party be allowed wands and personal guards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Narcissa Malfoy had accepted graciously, Gringotts had not.
      Several increasingly heated letters OWLed back and forth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gringotts stated that Harry Potter was in no way exempt from
      typical bank security. While Gringotts (both the company and all
      individual employees) <em class="calibre7">absolutely</em> believed that Mr. Potter
      did not intend to steal anything from this (or any other vault) and
      took no position on the general ... <em class="calibre7">unpleasantness</em>
      currently being debated. That being said, Gringotts had a fiduciary
      responsibility to all their customers that mattered more than their
      (obvious!) sympathies towards Harry Potter. Why, if even mighty
      Peverell Hospital could be broken into, Gringotts would take no
      chances.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Politely, and with much legalese, Harry's request for personal
      security was denied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At which point the magical government of Britain intervened,
      again requesting a one time waiver due to extenuating
      circumstances.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gringotts initially responded with an outright rejection, then a
      letter examining in some detail just how much a waiver would cost.
      An hour latter, a letter marked with the Seal of the Chief Mugwump
      calmly suggested that if Gringotts did not feel comfortable hosting
      a meeting between two second year students and Narcissa Malfoy and
      that the security requirements of said meeting were beyond their
      ability to handle then Gringotts should simply publicly declare
      that fact, at which point of course other arrangements could be
      made.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After sending <em class="calibre7">that</em> letter (having stolen a supply of
      scrolls and an extra seal of the Chief Mugwump months ago), Harry
      fully expected a long missive stating something along the lines of
      'we feel it is a gross mischaracterisation to refer to the Hermione
      Granger (aka The-Girl-Who-Revived) and Harry Potter (aka
      The-Boy-Who-Lived-And-Is-Also-Possibly-Voldemort) as <em class="calibre7">two second
      year students</em> and said forementioned gross mischaracterization
      understated the real threats involved. More litigious parties than
      Gringotts may consider that as a borderline libelous statement,' at
      which point the letter would continue with a ridiculously long list
      of counter-demands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gringott's actual response simply enumerated convenient times
      and a request for the typical 27 hours advance notice for the
      meeting, along with the standard boilerplate detailing in-vault
      guards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry, feeling mildly insulted that Gringotts accepted (his own)
      characterization of himself as a mere <em class="calibre7">second year student</em>,
      briefly toyed with the idea of never using ironic self-effacement
      again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And so it came to pass that Harry Potter walked into the Malfoy
      family vault to face Narcissa Malfoy ten days after her son's
      funeral. To Harry's surprise, Narcissa didn't appear active in the
      political drive opposing him. She'd confirmed the relevant facts
      when interviewed by the <em class="calibre7">Daily Prophet.</em> The only interview
      she'd given portrayed her as an outraged mother who'd just lost a
      child, nothing more. Narcissa hadn't attended the Wizengamot during
      the lengthy debates and votes for sanction, although she'd left
      instructions to vote for Gilderoy Lockhart's pardon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even if Harry wanted to, he dare not keep her under surveillance
      because somebody would notice (or perhaps an Auror would even leak
      the information) and he'd look even worse. But Narcissa Malfoy
      stayed well out of the public spotlight. By all accounts, she was
      too good an <em class="calibre7">Occlumens</em> for Harry to know if she was just
      playing the role of a grieving mother. But even if she secretly
      rejoiced in Draco's death (which Harry sincerely doubted) Narcissa
      had simply withdrawn from public society, as far as anyone could
      tell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His contacts at the <em class="calibre7">Prophet</em> indicated she had not
      interfered in day-to-day operations the entire time she'd been
      back. Still, nobody could ever pin that on Lucius, back in the day.
      Not that direct interference had been necessary. In a situation
      like this you didn't need a cackling boss dictating the news. There
      would always be enough people (at all levels) who would consider it
      generally advantageous for their career to print news that helps
      the owner. So if the reporters merely imagined that's what Narcissa
      would want - to have Draco not die in vain - that was enough. The
      <em class="calibre7">Prophet</em> had printed stories about Harry's connection to
      Voldemort every day for the last week and a half. It boosted
      circulation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia Bones spent her days fighting Harry's political war.
      Harry understood people in abstract, but he had no special
      advantage in politics. Horace Slughorn had been investigating
      Hogwarts since his return just as a matter of routine intrigue. To
      cement his position. Once he'd sniffed that Harry was Tom Riddle
      he'd focused intently. Slughorn hadn't found anything solid (apart
      from the Maurader's Map that Draco provided) but he'd gotten enough
      circumstantial evidence to indicate that Harry sat behind the
      scenes, masterminding.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The <em class="calibre7">Prophet</em> parcelled these facts out, a steady stream
      of curious coincidences and "damning" evidence. Harry understood
      how people thought, and how mobs worked, but only at a theoretical
      level. Newspapers lived and died on this, and the country was
      dividing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Every day he read the paper, as an internal debate raged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">If I were an uninterested 3rd party (but just as smart), I'd
      recognize the signs of a hatchet job and all the sloppy logic.</em>
      said Ravenclaw.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">But you'd still note the information,</em> said Hufflepuff.
      <em class="calibre7">Even if you discounted it you'd have to nudge up the
      probability that something strange was going on. Harry Potter may
      not be Dark Wizard level, but still, best to keep an eye on him.
      Some disturbing facts here.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had some ideas how the Prophet placed him in the same room
      as Amelia Bones over winter break. And while they didn't have
      absolute proof, they'd gotten it right on at least that
      occasion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">And at some point, you'd decide to investigate this Harry
      Potter yourself,</em> said Gryffindor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">None of his voices said "I'd prove his innocence." If Harry
      could do that, he wouldn't be in this mess with Draco in the first
      place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One lone voice said, <em class="calibre7">I'd prove Harry Potter wasn't a
      monster.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">At which point Slytherin chimed in, <em class="calibre7">Assuming you didn't fall
      for the one subtle (and hard to disprove) lie the Prophet slipped
      in.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had been watching for the subtle lie. So far it hadn't
      appeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Still reviewing the latest <em class="calibre7">Daily Prophet</em>, Harry was
      escorted into the vault with Narcissa and the Malfoy family
      solicitor for the last two decades, a Mr. Erasmus Farnsworth, Esq.
      As Harry folded up his paper, he reflected that he'd never seen a
      Wizard Lawyer (Amelie handled that). Harry recognized the
      traditional lengthy waxed black moustache, honed to a pair of fine
      points. The entire effect would inspire feelings of inadequacy in
      Snidely Whiplash, but it looked no less ridiculous than those
      terrible wigs that Muggle judges wore, in Harry's opinion.
      Farnsworth sported a pair of minuscule round eyeglasses, attached
      to his hat via a small black rope. Narcissa still wore mourning
      robes and a veil. She sat on the other side of the table, while Mr.
      Erasmus Farnsworth nodded solemnly and offered the seats to
      Hermione, then Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By agreement, there were only four seats at the table. Mad-Eye
      Moody stood back with the guards. Harry couldn't be sure, but it
      looked like there was significantly less gold than when he'd been
      here with Lucius and Draco. House Malfoy remained wealthy, but
      Draco had spent a lot of his assets over the last year. As his eyes
      scanned the room, a thought popped into Harry's head. <em class="calibre7">Check if
      Draco moved a bunch of cash around in the last few months to use
      after he died. House Malfoy may not be familiar with forensic
      accounting. They probably are, but you never know.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The lawyer took out a scroll and started to read in a solemn
      voice. "Lady Malfoy, Miss Granger, Mr. Potter, I have asked you
      here as per the wishes of the deceased for the reading of the will
      of Draco Malfoy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How can that be?" said Harry, shoving down any embarrassment he
      felt. Hermione kicked him under the table. <em class="calibre7">As far as anyone
      else was concerned, Draco was most certainly dead.</em> "I mean,
      Draco had not attained the age of majority. Is this will
      binding?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mr. Erasmus Farnsworth, Esq, pulled off his glasses and they
      dangled from the rope, while he stared at Harry. His voice was
      lighter, with more velocity than before. "Technically, this will
      can be contested by any party directly related to the Testator,
      named in the will, or named in any prior will or revoked codicil.
      As Draco had filed no prior relevant legal documents, all parties
      who could contest the will are located here. If there is a desire
      to contest we can proceed with negotiation or non-binding
      arbitration, and should no agreement..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I understand," said Harry. The lawyer reeled his glasses back
      up and perched them on his nose, glancing to all parties to make
      sure there were no questions. Then he continued in his solemn, slow
      voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"I Draco Malfoy, son of Lucius, son of Abraxis Lords of the
      Noble and Most Ancient House of Malfoy, son also of Narcissa
      daughter of Druella Lady of the Noble and Most Ancient House of
      Black, scion and heir of the Noble and Most Ancient House of
      Malfoy, declaring that I am of sound mind and body, do hereby
      declare this my last will and testament."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the reading paused, Harry marveled at how the lawyer could
      say all of that in a single breath, and still sound somewhat
      elegant.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"I do hereby bequeath the Sigil Cane of House Malfoy to Lord
      Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres of House Potter, so that its
      presence should not disturb the Lady Narcissa Malfoy with sad
      memories, on the condition that he acknowledges that he retains it
      only in stewardship until such time as Narcissa Malfoy produces
      another child of any name, and that afterwards it will be the
      property of said child, with his or her parents as
      regent."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had questions, but he didn't interrupt. Narcissa let out a
      plaintive sob at the mention of another child.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"If Mr. Potter does not agree to the request, the Sigil cane
      shall be disposed of following the standard set by the Last Will
      and Testament of Lucius Malfoy as if I had preceded him in
      death."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"I bequeath the Diary of Draco Malfoy to Lady Hermione
      Granger of House Granger in the hopes that she heeds its
      advice."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"I have arranged for correspondence to be delivered to
      appropriate parties, as per my instructions."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"All remaining possessions I do leave to Lady Narcissa
      Malfoy of House Malfoy. Should she precede me in death, I leave
      everything to Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres or his designated
      heirs, to use as best he sees fit to enhance the goal of saving the
      world."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The solicitor took of his glasses and rubbed his nose. "Signed
      by Draco Malfoy on December 22nd, witnessed by Griphook of
      Gringotts bank, sealed with Gringotts seal," he displayed the
      scroll for inspection. "Are there any objections to the will as I
      have just read?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Narcissa shook her head, still crying. Hermione's head moved
      imperceptibly, while Harry simply said no. <em class="calibre7">The cane might be
      trapped, but I can let Mad Eye inspect it and just shove it away if
      it's dangerous.<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In that case," the solicitor said, "your correspondence and
      items." He placed Draco's cane on the table in front of Harry. It
      was swaddled in a black velvet cloth, and Mr. Farnsworth briefly
      opened the top, revealing the silver Krait handle, then closed it.
      On top of the cane he gently set down a sealed letter with the
      words "Harry Potter" in Draco's elegant handwriting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The lawyer moved smoothly over and placed a small black book in
      front of Hermione. Harry recognized it as Draco's notebook he'd
      used for most of the year. <em class="calibre7">I thought it was just a list of
      notes, not a diary,</em> he thought. <em class="calibre7">And we'll need to inspect
      it as well.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">In front of Narcissa, the lawyer placed a letter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry broke the seal and started to read.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">To my friend Harry Potter,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I write you this letter on Winter Break inside Malfoy Vault,
      safe from any scrying. Here it will stay, hopefully never to be
      read, because I have left my solicitor instructions to deliver this
      letter (and burn all others to you unopened) if I die betraying
      you.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">This is my final plot: If you are Voldemort - or should I
      say, Tom Riddle - I earn some measure of respect for recognizing
      you and using all tools in my power to oppose you. Though I failed,
      at least I failed trying my utmost.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">And if you are not...may you understand and gain some
      measure of wisdom to aid you in the future.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I wish I could have believed you. Or believed in you. My
      life would've been better.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I know I may be wrong. I hope I am wrong, that I'll soon
      return to Gringott's and rip this letter up, or perhaps show you
      some day when we are older. But if you are reading this ... this is
      not an apology, though I believe you will understand.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Know that I believe you meant well and that I don't believe
      you are the exact same monster who killed Father. I know you
      couldn't save him. This is not about him, except for the fear that
      haunted me all fall term – repeating his mistake of backing a Dark
      Wizard. It haunts me, the knowledge that I could be wrong, either
      way. But I think that if I don't act, don't try to resolve this
      impossible problem, it will haunt me even more.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I am not yet committed, when I write this. I am setting
      plans in motion – using every resource at my disposal. But I lack
      information I sorely need. My plots remain flexible, I am ready to
      pivot them to assisting you and Hermione, an ambition worthy of my
      family's name.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">But if you are reading this, I have failed. Hopefully I am
      wrong, so in this letter I do my utmost to help you, as I should
      have done from the beginning.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I have little to offer. My Diary is now merely a book. It
      will offer advice only to a true Malfoy in name and blood, and I
      have no heir. The Sigil Cane of my Father will be of some use,
      though its power is keyed to my family as well. I doubt it will
      answer your summons, thought I have not tested that experimentally.
      What I can offer is advice.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">All strengths have a corresponding weakness. You saw how I
      deployed honesty as a weapon. Know that I desperately wished you
      were not an Occlumens, that you could swear under one drop of
      Veritaserum that I was wrong. I almost did trust Hermione, despite
      her training. I do not think deception becomes her, and no magic
      can hide her inherent goodness. She is the best of us.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I doubt even you could <span>corrupt</span> her but I know
      you could <span>deceive</span> her, if necessary. We know that is
      your true power, if not your true nature.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Your skills as a thinker blinds you to people, normal
      people. I was not your equal in thinking, but this let me see them
      more clearly. I wish I could have convinced myself to act as your
      minion, to smooth your politics and ease your way. Gregory and
      Vincent can help you. I believe they will want to, and I will
      arrange my plots to ensure that they have no meaningful
      foreknowledge. They have never plotted against you. In my
      correspondence to them, I've asked them to answer any questions you
      may have. I expect there will be a full investigation in any
      case.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Your strength makes you arrogant. You must temper
      that.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">If you are innocent, examine my mistakes and teach others
      how to avoid them.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">And treasure family. One day you will have a family of your
      own. I imagine your children will teach you wisdom, Harry. I know
      that once I understood Father's mistakes - and the motives behind
      them - that is when I felt perhaps I could become wise.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Your friend,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Draco Malfoy</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stared at the letter. Part of him wanted it to be a plot,
      to have some deeper subtlety beyond the plain confession of the
      words. A part of Harry thought <em class="calibre7">I could have avoided this.
      H</em>is heart pounded with guilt and shame. He looked over at
      Hermione and she'd was still just sitting there, the diary
      untouched. Narcissa cried as she read her letter, but a wry smile
      was on her face as tears slid down her cheek. Harry started to
      re-read his letter, but as he did so Hermione reached out and
      pulled the diary across the table and opened it quickly. Harry
      could see over her shoulder that all the pages were blank, which
      made no sense. He'd seen Draco write in this almost every day.
      <em class="calibre7">Well, every day I saw Draco</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione slowly flipped through the pages, bewildered, then
      started to close the diary. Right before the diary shut she let out
      a small gasp and re-opened it to the front page. What had been
      blank now showed a small sketch of an urn. No, a vase. Slowly the
      sketch added shading and a design. The pencil drew in two flowers
      that Harry couldn't identify. The lack of colours made it
      difficult, perhaps they were roses. Brisk, clean lines filled out
      the sketch with details and suddenly the motion stopped, the sketch
      complete.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then in Draco's elegant cursive, the signature <em class="calibre7">D.M.</em>
      and, underneath the words appeared</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9"><em class="calibre7">Save Them All</em></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione wept as Narcissa and Harry tried to console her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A minute later, Alastor Moody - having quietly moved closer
      during the proceedings - reached over the table, snatched Draco's
      Diary, and toss it into a sack.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was left to me," Hermione protested, wiping away tears.
      Alastor cut her off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Could be a trap," Mad-Eye said, adding the Sigil to the sack.
      "Never trust anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry waited for the end of the sentence and then realized that
      Mad-Eye Moody did not intend to add any qualifiers. Nothing
      reasonable like, <em class="calibre7">Never trust a gift from someone who has
      plotted against you,</em> or <em class="calibre7">Never trust a Malfoy</em> or
      <em class="calibre7">Never trust a gift from someone who clearly intends to oppose
      you</em> or even somewhat reasonable advice like <em class="calibre7">Never trust
      anything that was disguised under your nose for a year and may be
      more than it seems.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">No, <em class="calibre7">never trust anything</em>. Full stop. It probably
      sounded better in Latin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked over at Hermione - who looked disturbingly angry -
      and at Narcissa Malfoy, who did not seem offended at all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lady Malfoy. You don't mind the implication?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lucius never touched a gift unless it was thoroughly inspected,
      or he trusted the giver implicitly, or knew the full provenance, or
      felt the giver was a 'milquetoast incapable of anything truly
      dangerous.' Draco plotted against you. Which exception should
      apply?" She shook her head as she said it. "No offence was
      intended. It's like the gift of the wine. Your watchdog's job is to
      protect you; he would have done the same that had been left to you
      by Dumbledore himself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alastor grumbled about intended offense under his breath, but if
      Narcissa Malfoy could hear it she gave no response. Mr. Farnsworth
      had said nothing during this time, but simply stared at his watch,
      like the entire conversation was just another billable hour. In
      fact, now that Harry thought about it, Draco's lawyer had been
      studying the time quite intently ever since delivering their
      correspondence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, they aren't dangerous?" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I won't speak to the Sigil, that's was Lucius and he asked me
      never to handle it. But the Diary? That's simply the received
      wisdom of House Malfoy passed down from generation to generation.
      Lucius and I had no qualms giving it to Draco. In any case, I think
      if it posed a danger it would have been given to him," at this
      Narcissa nodded towards Harry, "instead of you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry listened to Narcissa's words, but during her speech her
      lawyer had stopped staring at his watch and reached into his
      satchel. Even if Harry hadn't noticed that, Alastor's abrupt shift
      of focus would have startled him, but the lawyer simply pulled out
      two small letters, one labeled "Harry Potter," and the other
      labeled "Gringotts." Mr. Erasmus Farnsworth, Esq, walked over to
      Harry and handed him the second letter, then glanced at his watch
      again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You ... you are under an Unbreakable Vow," Harry recognized the
      signs now, Draco's lawyer was too punctual. Of course it made sense
      that the best lawyers, the most expensive ones would be bound not
      by something so weak as the threat of disbarment or other legal
      sanctions. The best lawyers would be bound to follow their client's
      instructions that didn't violate any laws. So long as they
      paid.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We need to leave," Harry said, opening up the letter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Harry,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Our lawyers may be cute, but even they know how to argue
      grey areas of the law.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">My letter to Gringotts will be delivered in ten minutes. I
      suggest you be someplace defensible by then.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Guards, open the vault! We're leaving," Harry announced to the
      room, quickly standing up. The two goblins gave a small bow and
      then started the process of unsealing the door. "Lady Malfoy, my
      respects. But we're going back to Hogwarts. Mr. Farnsworth, I don't
      suppose you would be willing to advise us ..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am bound not to take on any potential conflicts of interest
      for at least one year plus a day after the end of my service," he
      said, eyes still firmly on his watch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course, just checking," Harry waited impatiently for the
      guards to open the vault door, which took several seconds. Hermione
      had caught up to them by now, and even Mad Eye Moody seemed
      agitated as he glanced around the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, what's the matter," Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced at the guards. They still wore their magical
      eyepieces and goggles. They couldn't have overheard him, not unless
      he addressed them specifically. "Draco's going to try and convince
      the goblins we transfigured money."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They won't possibly believe him," Hermione said, but Mad Eye's
      single barked laugh ended the conversation as the vault door swung
      open.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Author's Note</strong> - Thanks again for my
      proofreader. Next chapter in one week.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
