<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2 - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 64: Gates of Ivory and Horn (Epilogue, II), a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s32" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 64: Gates of Ivory and Horn, Epilogue Pt 2</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"The Angel hearing this became almost blue</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">but mastering himself he grew yellow,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">&amp; at last white, pink &amp; smiling, and then
      replied:</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">'Thou Idolator, is not God One?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">&amp; is not he visible in Jesus Christ?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">and has not Jesus Christ given his sanction to the law of
      the ten commandments,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">and are not all other men fools, sinners, &amp;
      nothings?"<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter stared at the Kraken gently floating in the
      distance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It stretched across his entire field of vision, covering the
      full arc. Directly in front of him was the thorax and one large
      tentacle that branched off towards him before drifting down from
      the light blue water in front of him and disappearing in the inky
      black depths of a crevasse that marked the edge of Atlantis. The
      tip of a second tentacle lolled through Atlantis' main agora,
      twisting between buildings like an errant oil pipeline from the
      bygone days of fossil fuels. Other tentacles trailed away in
      various directions to his (current) left side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Presumably the head was off to his right, perhaps a nautical
      mile or two distant. Harry couldn't see it as the body disappeared
      into the murky ocean in the distance. A dolphin gamboled along the
      edge of the Kraken, nudging it once or twice. Schools of fished
      pirouetted in their eternal dance in the background, splitting up
      and regrouping according to simple rules to produce complex beauty.
      Harry's gaze lingered on the dolphin for a second. Its behaviour
      increased the probability that Harry's research was correct, that
      the Kraken wasn't a threat, assuming dolphins understand Krakens
      better than humans. The dolphin didn't seem afraid of the
      slumbering Kraken.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Kraken didn't bother Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd practiced dealing with Krakens. He'd made detailed plans on
      dealing with any number of magical aquatic beasts, both common and
      uncommon. Krakens were rare, and had been considered mythical for
      centuries, but they existed and so Harry had prepared. The Ancient
      Libraries of Pacifis contained records dating back nearly fifteen
      hundred years tied, woven in giant kelp strands. They were knotted
      into the language of Merfolk much like ancient Andeans used knotted
      strings as records and books. As tempting as it had been, Harry
      hadn't bothered learning to read archaic Mermish. He'd simply hired
      experts to literally comb through the library and summarize the
      information for him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were three references that contained the rings of truth,
      and not just tall tales passed along. From those Harry hoped he
      knew what to expect. Krakens were notoriously difficult to deal
      with physically but had no specialized mental defenses. An unnamed
      Viking from the early twelfth century had <em class="calibre7">Imperiused</em> a
      Kraken that had happened to be lolling on the surface near his
      skiff. But the viking had gotten lucky that the beast had ignored
      him. Much like anything else, a strength often implied a
      corresponding weakness. Krakens rarely bothered attacking anything
      smaller than a ship displacing ten-thousand tonnes, and probably
      couldn't even detect a swimming wizard (or dolphin). If the Viking
      sailed an 18th century Ship of the Line, the Kraken would have
      crushed him instead of sunning itself, oblivious to his approach.
      Hide thick enough to repel the strongest magics rendered it
      insensitive to small pests like humans, dolphins, or row boats. The
      odds of a Kraken deliberately crushing a nearby swimmer were
      miniscule.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The odds of getting <em class="calibre7">accidentally</em> sucked into its gills
      or smashed by a tentacle as the Kraken swam along were phenomenally
      higher.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If you needed to defeat a Kraken? Other encounters compiled by
      the Merpeople confirmed that a Kraken's eyes were the windows to
      the soul and mind. The trick was finding the eye then stunning the
      Kraken before it saw you. Or crushed you to death accidentally.
      Harry had expected at least one amazing mythical beast, and had
      prepared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Kraken didn't bother Harry. It was already unconscious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">That fact</em> troubled Harry, because he hadn't done
      anything. He'd just arrived.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">What good was a defense system that didn't work?</em> The
      Kraken seemed like the Atlantean equivalent to a laser-filled
      hallway with exquisitely precise motion sensors, floor pressure
      plates capable of detecting the smallest change in weight, mana
      detection runes and lethal countermeasures ... all turned off.
      Harry swam away from the Kraken, down into the main ruins of
      Atlantis. All of his sensors - magical spells, sonar, pressure and
      current gauges - indicated no threat other than the Kraken.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That also disturbed him, and he thought as he swam towards the
      city.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Theory #1 - Conspicuous Consumption.</em> The Kraken's mere
      existence represented a phenomenal show of force, a symbolic
      warning against those who would dare to trespass. It said that
      <em class="calibre7">Atlantis has such ridiculously good defences that we wasted a
      Kraken.</em> This would not fit Harry's style - a 'Do not disturb'
      sign would work nicely - but perhaps the ancients had their own
      peculiar style. Warnings shouldn't depend on subtlety or the target
      making inferential leaps, so Harry was inclined to discount this
      theory. If the Kraken had been intended as a warning, Harry
      considered that it would probably be prudent to heed it. But he
      swam on, thinking still.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Theory #2 - Coincidence</em>. Perhaps the Kraken was just
      passing through, or had made Atlantis its home. There was a logic
      to that - Atlantis had been an above-water city and only later an
      underwater ruin. While Harry had trained with Merpeople, there was
      no reason to believe that Atlantis had specialized ocean-based
      defenses. It might not have any traps remaining after all this time
      underwater. Perhaps the Kraken just liked the view, its own little
      miniature town to play with. Maybe it felt attracted by the nature
      of the city. Harry could feel the magic in his bones, it made his
      hair try to stand up underneath his wet-suit. The Kraken might
      enjoy that feeling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After all, the nature of Atlantis attracted Harry. Harry didn't
      plan based on coincidences, but they happened more often than plots
      and he couldn't rule out that the Kraken simply admired the magical
      decor of the place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Theory #3 - Someone else had beaten him to Atlantis and
      dealt with the Kraken.</em> This was the most troubling theory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By all accounts Krakens slept hard. If someone else had knocked
      it out, it would sleep for years. Decades. At least one
      (non-verified) story said that the famous Greek Kraken slept for
      four or five centuries at a time when Zeus wasn't releasing it.
      Apocryphal, but that <em class="calibre7">would</em> account for the disappearance
      of Kraken's from Muggle sea lore from the time of Admiral Nelson.
      Harry briefly worried his dallying had cost him, which was
      ludicrous. Atlantis had been down here for Millennia. The chances
      that he'd been beaten by a year or even a decade seemed small.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of all of the theories Harry imagined, this wasn't the most
      plausible theory. But it was the most <em class="calibre7">actionable.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">And it wasn't like looking out for a potentially hostile other
      wizard differed much much from watching for magical defenses in
      general.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry swam down to the ocean floor. Entering the city on the
      east side, well away from the stray tentacle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The buildings had a style Harry labelled <em class="calibre7">Classically
      Greek</em>, but with more ornamentation that he'd seen in the
      Parthenon or the recreations of other ancient sites. Falcons, Owls
      and other sculptures of Patronuses looked down on the ocean floor
      from the tops of buildings. Atlantis had a simpler architecture,
      more consistent than the magical buildings of his youth which, like
      Hogwarts, tended more towards chaos than consistency. But statuary
      and carvings made each building distinct. Harry could look from
      building to building and see the same shapes. Houses were all
      roughly the same size with the same layout of doors. He could pick
      out repeated features, not mass produced like Muggle technology,
      but either the Atlanteans had a building code or specific reasons
      for design. Large windows faced north, with smaller doorways to the
      south. Apart from the ornamentation, sigils near each door and
      etchings on the side, the buildings looked near identical.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Smaller buildings clustered along the outskirts of town. Larger
      buildings - probably meeting houses, marketplaces, and the like -
      were towards the center.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The city looked serene, as if it had been gently lowered into a
      bowl of water and then ... nothing. The difficulty of finding
      Atlantis had doubtless helped to keep it from being looted, but
      Harry had expected much more damage and decay. Most buildings
      looked intact, although a few had collapsed into the crevasse.
      Historians had never nailed down the exact nature of Atlantis'
      destruction, although the topic was hotly argued. (Harry had long
      since stopped using the word <em class="calibre7">debated</em> when discussing
      differences of opinions about legend), but Harry had expected it to
      look like ... , well, more like a disaster.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">What kind of natural disaster destroys an entire population,
      but leaves the city intact?</em> <em class="calibre7">Disease seems obvious, but
      then it would be above ground. An odd coincidence.</em> Even now,
      swimming among the ruins, no answer presented itself to Harry. If
      Atlantis sank slowly, the citizens would have relocated. Muggles
      did that all the time, abandoning cities that became uninhabitable.
      For powerful wizards it would be minor annoyance, no more. If
      Hogsmeade fell into a newly-created sea, the world would hear the
      complaints. Complaining occupied a good portion of every day life.
      But Atlantis had just - ceased, with not a single record or
      complaint.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It seemed unlikely that the population survived the
      disaster.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But the city of Atlantis had. It looked abandoned, but peaceful.
      Just submerged as if it had been placed inside an unshaken snow
      globe. If it had been a quickly submerged, enough to kill the
      population (if a natural dam had burst, for example) then Harry's
      quick Fermi calculation indicated more buildings would be
      destroyed. <em class="calibre7">Unless they were magically reinforced,</em> Harry
      thought, doubting himself automatically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A neutron bomb or other modern technological horror could have
      done the trick, but technologically those hadn't existed (<em class="calibre7">had
      they</em>?). Magically ... Harry didn't know.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry swam up to one of the smaller houses and wordlessly cast
      five spells to verify his solitude. His <em class="calibre7">panoptis</em>
      incantation caused his vision to flash yellow and Harry quickly
      spun around, wand in hand. He started to cast a wide ranging
      stunning spell, but the only created he saw was a dolphin that
      stopped abruptly and stared at him. It floated just past the corner
      of the alleyway, halfway between the ground and the roof.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry remembered the dolphin inspecting the Kraken. <em class="calibre7">Was this
      the same one?</em> Even if he'd been looking down at the dolphin
      swimming in a pool, Harry doubted he could tell dolphins apart.
      Underwater, in the depths illuminated by some natural light and the
      glare of his headlamps, he had no chance. The dolphin floated
      there, waiting and watching him. Harry didn't lower his guard, but
      relaxed a bit. Dolphins could be dangerous, but they were no
      Krakens.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In other ways dolphins posed more of a threat. Dolphins weren't
      magical, but were definitely sentient. That also meant they could
      be reasoned with.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My name is Harry Potter," Harry said calmly in his passable
      (albeit heavily accented) Mermish. Well, his name he bubbled in
      closest equivalent he could find phonetically, which basically
      sounded like 'Harry Potter' spoken underwater. Hahahahrraaeyeeye
      Potttototor. The dolphin's head swiveled around a bit, to take in
      Harry with one eye. It was tough to judge another species facial
      expressions. The human mind spent immense power to read human
      faces, but those didn't translate well the further you walked the
      evolutionary tree. But some part of Harry thought the the dolphin
      looked ... <em class="calibre7">intrigued</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The dolphin didn't move beyond small gestures to hold its
      position in the mild current. It just watched him, fins slowly
      pushing up and down in the water. Harry dare not turn his back on
      it. But Blboblb had not withdrawn his objections trivially. Harry
      slowly reached into his pouch and pulled out a small crystal. He
      gave it a squeeze and made a small mental command: '<em class="calibre7">Dolphin
      greeting.'</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The crystal erupted in a series of squeaks, chirps and squeals.
      Even in his own range of hearing, it sounded impressive, but Harry
      knew the sounds had a range many kilohertz above human hearing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even before the sounds died out, the dolphin convulsed with
      laughter. Bubbles of air escaped the blowhole as it rolled back and
      forth slightly, shuddering with amusement. Harry squeezed his
      crystal again, waiting for the translated answer, but there was
      nothing. He frowned.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"The Devil answer'd,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">'Bray a fool in a morter with wheat,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">yet shall not his folly be beaten out of him;</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">If Jesus Christ is the greatest man,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">you ought to love him in the greatest degree:</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">now hear how he has given his sanction to the law of the ten
      commandments:"<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alexio laughed like he hadn't in years.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Earlier, Alexio Vasconcelos had been stunned to see Harry
      Potter. All of his spies, moles, sources and spells agreed that
      Harry had been a statue for several decades now. Harry, along with
      one-hundred thirteen other unfortunate victims, were safely inside
      the Department of Mysteries, until their radiation levels allowed
      for depetrification. <em class="calibre7">When had Harry gotten free</em>? <em class="calibre7">Had
      he never truly been trapped?</em> <em class="calibre7">How had they circumvented the
      radiation?</em> Alexio didn't trust any of his spies - that's why
      he had so many, and why they were all ignorant of the others
      existence - but he trusted physics and radioactive decay followed a
      predictable schedule. In the first year after his trap, Alexio
      confirmed and double checked the list of victims, to make sure that
      Harry hadn't escaped. Then Alexio had relaxed and decided to use
      his time fulfilling an earlier goal of his - of Draco's.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alexio's search led him to Atlantis. The obvious destination, in
      hindsight. Finding it hadn't been simple, but Alexio had access to
      esoteric works and vaults and accumulated lore that wizards decades
      his senior would have killed for, had they known he possessed it.
      His search had taken extensive resources and years, but the
      resolution had never been in doubt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alexio found Atlantis.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And, unexpectedly, Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He froze when he stumbled across Harry swimming through Atlantis
      as though it was just another adventure. He'd been stunned to see
      the Harry Potter he'd spent decades plotting and conspiring against
      swimming in the immaculate ruins. It was so wildly improbable and
      unexpected that, for once, Alexio had no idea what to do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fortunately Alexio's passive defenses continued working. Over
      his wet-suit he wore his newest invention, robes with a calming
      illusions. He'd had the idea decades ago, after a few bad
      experiences with Armageddon Enchantments. Armageddon robes had
      their purpose, but lacked subtlety. The viewer's eyes slid off the
      wearer, to be sure. But the apprehension and fear that the spell
      caused triggered a fight or flight response. Armageddon robes put
      everyone on high alert, which was counter-productive.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alexio often needed to appear <em class="calibre7">innocuous</em>, like he
      belonged in the situation. The enchantment worked on the same
      principle as before - don't bother with illusions and simply attack
      the victim's mental state - but with more serene results. Often
      times Alexio could pass unawares through a crowd and even walk past
      supposedly guarded doors. It was not that the guard weren't aware
      of him, the robes did not make you forget.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They just made it seemed like you belonged. Guards didn't see
      Alexio, they saw their employer, or an Auror, or any number of
      'authorized personnel,' walk through the restricted door. Anything
      that seemed reasonable. So when Harry whirled on Alexio, somehow
      detecting him, he'd simply frozen and hoped that his Affinity Robes
      worked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alexio dare not raise shields. Armaggedon robes worked on brute
      force, but he'd learned the price payed for a more subtle illusion
      was that it was more easily disrupted. If the guard stopped to
      think about it, he may wonder why his employer was here instead of
      on that business trip. Doing anything that contradicted the
      viewer's beliefs would shatter the illusion and break the spell.
      And while Alexio had a decent mental model of Harry Potter, nobody
      could be said to have a good one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Still, Alexio's wand was ready.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry spoke something that sounded like Mermish. Alexio stared.
      That could be a problem ... Alexio didn't speak Mermish and if
      Harry was seeing a Merperson, he'd get suspicious if he wasn't
      answered. Alexio's wand twitched nervously. Harry had obvious
      shields up, and that meant he had other less-visible means of
      defence. Alexio glanced at Harry's wand. It was the same one he
      always had. That was good, some of his spies said that Harry had
      been seen (rarely, but from time to time) with the Elder Wand.
      Perhaps if he attacked Harry, he could win.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Possible, but probably no better than a coin toss.
      <em class="calibre7">Non-lethally?</em> That seemed unlikely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alexio considered raising more subtle shields, perhaps if he
      just retreated... he furiously considered his options.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had pulled out some magical bauble like nothing Alexio had
      encountered and then the dolphin squeals started.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He couldn't help himself. He laughed with relief, laughter that
      echoed in his mind by Draco Malfoy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">A Dolphin! Harry Potter sees a dolphin!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">A stroke of luck, or perhaps his invention worked even better
      than he'd hoped? After a few second Alexio controlled himself and
      calmly swam away into the nearest building. It's what a dolphin
      would do, and in any case Alexio was in no position to deal with
      Harry now. Given that Harry considered Alexio to be part of the
      local fauna, he doubted Harry would attack him. The prudent course
      of action was to retreat and try to figure out what had gone
      horribly wrong and why Harry was awake - and in Atlantis of all
      places - but that meant ceding any discoveries to Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As long as Alexio's Robes functioned Harry would simply view him
      as something that belonged. Harry would be thinking, to be sure,
      but even if he did somehow see through the illusion - well, just
      because he'd managed to escape his fate as a statue didn't mean
      that Harry had any particular knowledge of Alexio Vasconcelos' past
      identity. At worst, Alexio and Harry were rival archeologists
      searching the same site. Some deception and secrecy would be
      expected. Even if Harry later worked out that he'd been tricked,
      Alexio could simply admit that he'd been racing Harry Potter to
      discover the secrets of Atlantis, which was true enough.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was rational. Harry would accept that, even if he was
      annoyed. He might try to bargain or negotiate or cajole, but he
      would not attack if he discovered <em class="calibre7">Alexio's</em> deception. Of
      this, Alexio felt sure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So, Alexio continued his exploration. If Harry thought starting
      in one of the side buildings had value, Alexio saw no reason to
      second guess that. He swam through the doorway and paused to take
      stock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The house could have passed for a Muggle apartment, albeit
      spartan and low technology. It looked comfortable, even elegant. A
      plush couch ran along one side of the room between two ornately
      crafted end tables, legs made of what appeared to be twirled ivory.
      Narwhale horns. Beautiful shells lined the table, reflecting all
      the colours of the rainbow from the glowing light that emanated
      from the very walls themselves. The couch faced a simple fireplace
      carved into the building's stone wall. Wrought iron pokers, dull
      black, stood sentry in a rack beside it. The couch's fabric
      appeared bright and unfaded, a clean floral print.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alexio was impressed. Magical items degraded slower than Muggle
      tools, but they degraded all the same. The elements would not be
      denied, at least not by the modern magics he grew up with. Spells
      had to be renewed, so seeing Atlantis in such pristine condition
      after eons spoke well of the magic of its inhabitants. Nothing
      rusted or faded. The lighting spells had not faltered, either.
      These were just throw-away enchantments meant to keep houses
      tidy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alexio whistled his appreciation inside his bubble head sphere,
      idly wondering what that sounded like to Harry. <em class="calibre7">Probably a high
      pitched squeal</em>, he thought as he swam through the house.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alexio heard Harry swim into the house behind him, while he
      inspected the kitchen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The kitchen table was still set. Small ivory spears the size of
      knitting needles were set besides plates in lieu of knives and
      forks. But also spoons and glasses. Red wine filled one of the
      glasses, the color clear and ominous and Draco was reminded of the
      phrase "The Wine Dark Sea<em class="calibre7">."</em> Besides the glass, a crystal
      pitcher also held wine, as if the pourer had only had time to pour
      one glass when the disaster occurred. Alexio stared as the wine
      from the glass and pitcher started to mix with the surrounding
      water, viscous globes slowly spreading and diffusing into the salty
      brine.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alexio watched the scene for several seconds, uncomprehending
      and merely observing before realization sunk in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The disaster just happened here. Moments ago. Seconds ago.
      Atlantis was frozen, somehow. Which explains why my search ended
      here. Atlantis is also trapped beyond time.</em> <em class="calibre7">No matter when
      I arrived in Atlantis, it would have always been right after the
      disaster, in the Atlantean frame of reference. And if that is true
      for me, it would be true of any searcher ... Harry wouldn't bother
      with Atlantis until he had no pressing business, which means
      ...<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alexio spun around. He saw Harry Potter staring through the
      doorway, eyes fixed on the same place setting, tracking the wine
      diffusing into the ocean. Alexio raised his wand and started
      Al-Jabber's Silent Stupefication spells. Alexio raised his shields
      just as Harry calmly flicked his wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alexio's Robes rent apart just as his shields went up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's eyes widened, but he made no move to cast again. Harry
      seemed to be searching for the right words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alexio could imagine Harry's predicament. Harry faced
      significant information leakage problems. Difficult enough when
      limited to six hours. How much of a problem did this Harry face?
      Alexio watched the range of emotions playing across Harry's face
      for the briefest moment. Harry had been stunned, as surprised as
      Alexio had been when he realized Harry saw him as a dolphin.
      Potter's training kicked in, but it was too late. Before all
      emotion drained from his face at some level Alexio ... Draco ...
      knew. <em class="calibre7">This Harry</em> arrived from far enough in the
      future.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">This Harry</em> had witnessed their endgame. Harry had come
      out of his enforced delay and Alexio's next plan had failed. Or
      perhaps the one after that. It didn't matter. Harry had discovered
      who had plotted against him. He had no logic to back it up, but
      Alexio knew.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Had Harry imprisoned me out of necessity? Had he killed me?
      Did he hate me? Did Harry regret what had happened as much as I
      did?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">And the last thought, his greatest fear. Had <em class="calibre7">it all been a
      misunderstanding?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">More than he'd wanted anything in a long time, Alexio/Draco
      yearned to know the answers. How it all turned out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And he knew <em class="calibre7">again he just knew</em> that Harry wouldn't tell
      him. Harry Potter would be capable of biting his tongue no matter
      how much he wanted to explain. <em class="calibre7">(If he did)</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alexio reminded himself that the possibility remained that Draco
      was merely projecting his hopes and desires onto the Harry Potter
      that swam before him today. Today there would be no answers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know you are from the future, Harry Potter," Alexio said.
      He'd seen numerous small details in Harry's equipment and general
      bearing that confirmed his hypothesis. In hindsight it was obvious
      that the Crystal melded technology and magic in a strange hybrid
      function (although an MP3 player would have done just as well).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alexio didn't berate himself for missing it. Time-traveling
      (beyond the six hour limit of Time turners) had never entered his
      mind as a hypothesis.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry seemed satisfied with Alexio's statement, like it settled
      a number of issues and made everything smoother. Harry still paused
      for a second, apparently considering implications. Alexio waited
      patiently. <em class="calibre7">If Harry was from the future, he would have more to
      consider.</em> After a few more seconds, during which Harry tugged
      on his recently trimmed beard, he finally spoke up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One question, a safe question that has no bearing on our
      situation, but I'd like to know. Your robes. Did you invent the
      Lotus Eater Enchantment ... Alexio, isn't it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Is he calling me Alexio because he doesn't know? Or on the
      off chance that I don't suspect?</em> In the end, it didn't matter.
      The game had rules, and now was not the time to break them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lotus Eater?" Alexio cocked his head, carefully pronouncing the
      words. "I am not familiar with that phrase," he said, emphasizing
      his normally mild Portuguese accent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In Muggle Greek mythology, those who ate the Lotus became
      complacent with the world around them. Not oblivious, just ...
      content."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is a good name," Alexio agreed with a chuckle, "better
      than the one I used. Yes, it is mine. I take some comfort you
      overcame it only because it was already known to you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's on my checklist. Along with many other mind-altering
      magics. I still didn't catch it right away," Harry added in a
      comforting voice. "That's the trouble with Pasithean illusions.
      They seem so reasonable. You don't notice your confusion. At some
      level I always thought whoever designed them ..." Harry trailed
      off, and didn't finish explaining what he thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alexio slowly lowered his wand, other hand up in a surrendering
      gesture and spoke calmly and confidently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You saw the wine. You of all people understand the
      implications. Everyone who has ever sought out Atlantis has arrived
      now - at the same time. I suspect you and I are here for the same
      purpose, Harry Potter. Later on, I may have questions. Perhaps you
      do, too. Those must wait until we both pass this time in your
      timeline. We each possess different knowledge, but we share the
      same goal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tell me my purpose, then," Harry said. His wand never wavered
      from Alexio.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We are both here to rescue Albus Dumbledore," Alexio said
      solemnly. The seconds ticked by.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Truce?" Harry Potter asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Truce," Alexio agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They swam out of the doorway side by side, discussing their
      respective plans for exploring Atlantis.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
