<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2 - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 35: Wargames, Part 2 (Purple and Green), a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s3" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 35: Wargames, Pt 2 (Purple and Green)</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Beware the angry man. Beware the violent man. But mostly
      beware the man you cannot predict." - Lucius Malfoy</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Monday</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Today was Hermione's turn to lecture the first years, so Draco
      joined Gregory and Vincent's martial arts practice after breakfast.
      Of all of them, Draco missed practice most often – Harry's schedule
      was flexible enough to make practice whenever, but Draco had to
      lecture as well as take a full course load. So he lagged behind,
      but at least he wasn't doubled over panting in the first half hour.
      They ended the session sparring and Draco partnered with Harry
      while Neville watched.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They'd circled around each other early, warily. Draco took a
      quick step forward and jabbed, then pulled back, but Harry had
      stepped back. Harry tried to jab, but Draco circled away. This was
      typical for them, they didn't have any flashy moves yet, not like
      Vincent and Gregory. Draco was about to jab again but instinct
      stopped him. He shifted his feet – left foot forward - Harry
      stepped forward and jabbed, but Draco was also moving forward,
      snapping a hard kick into Harry's stomach. Harry's fist brushed
      Draco's chin at the same time, but just barely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry doubled over and collapsed onto the ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry!" Draco said. Wizards could take more damage than
      Muggles, but it didn't make it any less painful. Vincent or Gregory
      would have pulled their kick back, Draco wasn't skilled enough.
      Harry rolled on the ground, not quite retching but making gurgling
      noises. Gregory was talking to Harry and Vincent pulled Draco
      aside.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He walked into that," Vincent said. "And you over-committed. If
      he'd jumped out of the way, or swept your leg aside he'd have
      knocked you over and sat on you." They'd practiced that. If someone
      wound up sitting on your chest they'd pin your arms underneath
      their legs. Even if you had a wand out you'd be hard pressed to use
      it. You'd lose to gravity. Vincent and Gregory could sometimes
      recover from that disadvantage, with their years of training and
      conditioning. Crabbe could throw any of them off and Gregory
      managed to slip out. But neither Harry, Neville or Draco could. For
      them, having an opponent on top of you meant losing, and badly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Point taken," said Draco, looking over at Harry who had at
      least gotten up to his knees. They walked over to Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good kick," Harry managed to gasp out. "What did I do wrong?"
      he asked Gregory, after he was finally able to stand up straight.
      They started walking back inside the castle, the only had twenty
      minutes to make it up all those flights to Offense Against the Dark
      Arts and Harry wasn't walking quickly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You telegraphed it, and you took an actual step, which takes
      you off balance and makes you slow. I keep saying 'shuffle your
      feet.' You can take steps when you aren't really close, but at
      striking distance... just don't. Anything to add?" Gregory looked
      at Vincent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not sure you should be closing against Draco, certainly not
      drastically like that. You're taller. That counts for a lot, at
      least until you develop a personal style." They started up the
      first of the flights of stairs and Harry kept going up with them,
      wincing at the first few stairs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you joining us today?" Draco asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "I think I'm going to sit in on Offense from now
      on. I'm missing out, not attending. It's the one class where I
      can't just read the materials and plow ahead faster than the
      teacher can talk. It's really the only surprising class so far. And
      I need to keep up with what everyone knows to plan the Muggle Naval
      Simulation scenarios."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A year ago, that would have offended Draco immeasurably. Not
      what Harry said, but just the reminder that he was above taking
      classes. Now Draco felt that nothing Harry could say or do would
      offend him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Besides, I hear there's going to be an announcement for
      everyone," Harry added, and Draco remembered that Harry could still
      annoy him easily enough.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The group was one of the last to arrive at Offense. Harry joined
      Draco and Gregory among the Slytherin contingent while Neville and
      Vincent took their usual seats with the Hufflepuffs. Draco noticed
      Hermione sitting with the Gryffindors. He was about to nudge Harry
      when Professor Lockhart strolled out from the teacher's office and
      flashed the smile he opened every class with.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was easy to like Professor Lockhart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello, and I hope you all had a refreshing weekend. Let's just
      jump right into it, shall we?" Professor Lockhart looked out among
      the students listening to his every word and smiled again,
      broadly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Battles are fought for so many reasons. To overthrow a
      government. To steal something, or keep it from being stolen.
      Vengeance. Honour. To defend a key point, be it a choke-point –
      although those mostly apply for muggles, since they can't apparate
      – or a trade route, or ley line. For glory. And usually, for power.
      Dominance. And as we've seen before battles can sweep up and rage
      across a land with innocent civilians caught in the middle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The room started grumbling at the mention of that particular
      battle, and Draco unconsciously rubbed his left shoulder. Professor
      Lockhart shook his head, but still smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I don't blame you for not taking that well. But hopefully
      you will be more pleased that for our next battle the Headmistress
      has graciously allowed me to include the entire student body of
      Hogwarts! Now now, please, let me finish."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This does put you at a disadvantage, but in any battle – I
      suppose I should say 'war,' really, since the scale is so much
      bigger – for this <em class="calibre7">war</em> you have so many skills besides
      spell casting that come into play. Battles are won on the
      battlefield, to be sure. Wars are won by planning, cunning, guile
      and bravery! You win wars by fighting the right battles, and that's
      something I have been woefully neglecting to teach."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, a brief summary of the format. There are South American
      tribes called the D'razi that fight a civil war every five summers.
      They put in bunch of green and purple sashes into a big barrel, and
      then reach in and pull out a sash. Whoever draws a purple sash
      joins the purple team, and whoever draws a green sash joins the
      green team. After the ceremony the D'razi are symbolically split in
      two, and they fight until there is just one side! Sometimes it
      takes a full year. So, at Friday's dinner we'll have barrels for
      each house. You'll pick a stone and that will decide which team you
      are on!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But, those are Slytherin colours!" Neville said. "Can't we pick
      something more ... neutral?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not everything has to be about houses!" Professor Lockhart
      said, somewhat sharply. "But in fact, I did try to come up with two
      colours that weren't just black and white. I also considered solids
      and stripes, but as sartorial choices go..." he shook his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It just wouldn't do. If it offends you then we'll just consider
      it a way to honor the D'razi or - if you prefer - Professor
      Quirrell. So, on Friday we'll have our lottery and your robes will
      adjust accordingly. Each house will have one leader for purple and
      one for green. If you are 'killed' in the game your robes will
      adjust accordingly. An hour after the lottery ends, the war will
      start and it will continue until one side has all their leaders
      killed. To represent the Fidelius Charm, you will be safe in your
      bed, <em class="calibre7">but nowhere else</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Lockhart stopped to take in a breath and Tracey Davis
      spoke up. "That seems simple, at least compared to having secret
      agents like last time. What's the catch?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Lockhart just smiled. "It's neither fun or realistic
      to know <em class="calibre7">all</em> the rules ahead of time. But in any case many
      wars actually have well defined sides. While nobody knew for sure
      who the Death Eaters were, classical wars often involved differing
      nationalities that are often easy to tell apart by sight. Consider
      purple and green as your flags, two countries that hate each other.
      Don't be late for dinner on Friday! Now, let us turn to the
      discussion of scrying and how it pertains to scouting out
      territory..."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"He said <em class="calibre7">What?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Headmistress McGonagall's tone had neither risen or fallen at
      the end, it had merely … sharpened, ending in a final, tight point
      then quickly expiring. Harry Potter pushed down the urge to be
      anywhere else. It was stupid, a reaction to being glared at by an
      adult who had such considerable experience intimidating children
      that she did it naturally. He felt sure it wasn't directed at him.
      Not exactly. Still, it didn't make it any more comfortable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not a bad idea," chuckled Mad-eye, standing in the back
      corner of the Headmistress's office, where he could keep an eye on
      the room and the fireplace. "Mind you, I'm not sticking up for the
      lad. We could've used more people who knew about intrigue for the
      Order. Including Albus. Lot of time and people lost, learning those
      lessons." Several of the paintings around Alastor harrumphed or
      tsk'ed him with the portrait of Headmaster Walter Aragon calling
      out "Shame! Shame!" down at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If Mad-eye Moody heard the portraits, he gave no indication.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I agree," said Harry. "It's a good idea. I mean, I thought he
      had checked with you first, of course, but this is just what we've
      been learning on a grander scale."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The armies that Quirrell started are a voluntary activity. This
      involves everyone. It will be chaos," Minerva sighed. "Which is why
      you are positively giddy, Mr. Potter. But I would expect more from
      <em class="calibre7">you</em>, Alastor." She leaned back in her chair as far as it
      would go. She wasn't exactly lying down, but she came fairly close
      to being horizontal. "I will talk with Gilderoy later. As for now,
      I intend to relax until the next unforeseen disaster strikes. I
      hope to get the full hour," she said as she pulled her hat over her
      face, dismissing them.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Author's Note</strong> - I will be on a somewhat reduced
      schedule, but posting at least once a week.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
