<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2 - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Too Much Information, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s4" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 36: Too Much Information</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Passion makes fools of the clever, yet turns fools into
      geniuses." - Lucius Malfoy, quoting Albus Dumbledore</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Wednesday</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco sat down heavily in the Potions classroom. He dropped his
      scroll onto his desk. Ten inches on the proper technique for mixing
      Arnica roots into Occulus potion. He'd stayed up late to finish it,
      but also to avoid going to bed early. He'd slept reasonably well
      back at home, still tossing and turning during the night, but
      always falling asleep after a few minutes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rest had not followed him back to Hogwarts. He'd spent hours
      each night awake, alone with his thoughts. Draco realized that he'd
      had too much to do in too little time. Getting his business
      arrangements set up, his correspondence. He'd filled up his daytime
      hours and collapsed into a dreamless sleep, or if he was awake he
      had pressing matters.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now that Draco had urgent matters but no self-imposed deadlines
      he'd spent his first few nights lying awake, unable to sleep. If he
      closed his eyes the noise sounded like vines creeping along the
      ground, and the wind smelled of snow and pine needles. Gregory's
      snoring sounded relaxing in comparison, but set Draco's teeth on
      edge and something of it reminded him of the sound of ripping
      tendons. His shoulder would throb. After an hour or two Draco would
      sigh quietly in get up to review his lessons or do his homework.
      His grades would be exemplary for as long as he couldn't sleep.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Until he cracked.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco knew he could just go to the infirmary for a sleeping
      draught and he knew his pride was foolish, but he wasn't yet ready
      to go. Perhaps he'd just try to make some after class, but the
      thought of Professor Slughorn knowing felt even worse. He
      reconsidered talking to Madame Pomfrey.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good morning, Draco, Gregory" said Padma Patil, sitting to
      Draco's right. <em class="calibre7">Had she been there when he was sitting
      down?</em> Gregory had taken the seat to his left, of course, but
      Draco didn't remember if the other seat had been occupied. He
      hadn't heard her sit down. She was smiling at him broadly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He hadn't heard much, this morning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good morning, Padma," Draco said, stiffing a yawn."I was up
      late," he said as an apology, motioning to his scroll as Gregory
      said hello. Draco looked around and saw Neville and Vincent. Today
      was a doubles session with Hufflepuff. If he'd been paying
      attention he would have sat next to them...</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Pay attention to your guest!</em> Lucius' voice rang sternly
      in Draco's head and he turned back to Padma. He hadn't really done
      more than glance around the room, really. But Draco focused his
      attention.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You wrote way more than I did," Padma said, pointing to her own
      scroll.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I couldn't think of a way to summarize it. I rambled. <em class="calibre7">Too
      much information</em> and all that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's an interesting way of putting it," Padma said, leaning
      forward and resting her chin on her hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's something Harry says, <em class="calibre7">Too much information and not
      enough insight</em>" Gregory interjected, then quickly gave an
      abashed look and leaned back, away from the conversation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco knew that Harry didn't consider the Bayesian Conspiracy an
      important secret. He'd be perfectly happy to lecture the entire
      school on it, if he felt they were ready. But Harry did recognize
      that by limiting the group ensured that people gave his lessons
      importance. If – when – Harry spouted off insights that revealed
      deep truths of human fallacy or the natural order people ignored
      him or even ridiculed him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Draco made fun of Harry, too. Half of the fun of camaraderie
      involved mocking your friends foibles. And sometimes Draco didn't
      want people to have quite as good an understanding as Harry was
      willing to impart.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But when Harry doled out the truth slowly and made the
      recipients feel like a self-selected elite crowd, the same people
      would hang on his every word. Even knowing the trick, Draco felt
      more respectful during Conspiracy meetings. Harry left Galleons all
      over the place and nobody picked them up, but when he parceled out
      Knuts to their secret society, everyone quickly deposited them and
      thanked Harry profusely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory, and most of the newer members of the Conspiracy,
      considered it their duty to guard the information they'd learned,
      lest the shared knowledge make them less important. Draco found it
      amusing, sometimes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's basically the same thing that Professor Quirrel talked
      about last year. If you know that exposing trolls to sunlight
      turned them to stone, you might be tempted to use that
      information..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Instead of just apparating away," Padma finished. The classroom
      was filling up, but Professor Slughorn hadn't arrived yet. Gregory
      was pretending to proofread his homework, face slowly losing his
      crimson blush.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right. Or deciding what spell to attack with, when you aren't
      even sure you should be dueling. You see?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh absolutely," she said and Draco mentally added <em class="calibre7">Or like
      carrying on a friendly conversation with a girl who has romantic
      intentions with you without understanding what's going on.</em>
      Fortunately at that moment Professor Slughorn strolled into the
      room, chuckling at some private joke, and said "Today we are going
      to learn how to brew the <em class="calibre7">Wiggenweld Potion</em>. Incredibly
      useful if you happen to be attacked by Sleeping Sirens or if you
      tend to oversleep and are late, yes I'm referring to you Mr.
      MacMillan. Don't think I didn't see you try to slink in behind
      me!"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Thursday</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Daphne Greengrass heard the footsteps behind her as she went up
      the stairs towards the Great Hall and breakfast. She glanced back
      to see Draco Malfoy barely putting one foot in front of the other,
      head down, behind her. As always, his robes and appearance looked
      immaculate, but the effect was ruined for once.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Another long night?" she asked cheerfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco snorted, head still down, and she laughed. "What's funny?"
      It sounded like the words had escaped Draco's mouth by
      accident.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your snort. The rudest thing you've done to me, so I know you
      consider me a friend. To a mere acquaintance you would have
      answered. You only grunt to friends, when you think others can't
      hear you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And before breakfast," Draco added with a shrug.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They walked up the next few flights of stairs in silence and
      came out of the Dungeons.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Daphne," Draco paused for a second, glancing around as they
      walked, and Daphne realized that there wasn't anyone else around.
      "What do girls say about me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Daphne almost giggled or rolled her eyes, but something in
      Draco's expression stopped her. They were both Silvery Slytherins,
      after all. And he seemed so. Despondent. Draco had been full of
      energy all last year, even after he almost got murdered.
      <em class="calibre7">Especially</em> after he almost got murdered, and then when he
      rushed around trying to help after coming back to Hogwarts. But now
      his bursts of energy seemed to happen less often. He'd sit and
      think or hang out in the library. Now he only had energy when he
      was interacting with other people, in public.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Was Draco moping about a girl?</em> Did boys even do that?
      Boys in stories performed wildly outlandish acts to impress girls
      and - judging from the gossip - Draco <em class="calibre7">had</em>. Although Daphne
      did not for one minute believe Milicent Bulstrode's claim that
      Draco had dueled an Auror in Training for Hermione's hand. But the
      funny thing was, that wasn't out of the realm of reason. Draco
      probably had the ability, he'd been ambushed several times and
      while he hadn't won all of those duels he'd hardly been disgraced.
      No, the story didn't feel believable because she couldn't imagine
      Draco <em class="calibre7">having</em> to duel some foolish auror-wannabe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Outwardly, Daphne considered the question for seven more steps.
      Her mother had told her that treating other people's questions as
      serious and considering them fully would mark her as a serious
      thinker. And seven was lucky, after all. But she did actually come
      up with a few interesting thoughts during her pause.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because of Hermione?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, because of Padma," Draco answered. "I … I didn't realize
      she liked me, so I'm thinking about everything I said to her – or
      didn't say – and it all seems innocent enough. But undoubtedly I've
      forgotten things. Does she think I've been cruel? Do others?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fortunately for you, girls think all boys are oblivious. This
      is the rare case where the fundamental attribution error doesn't
      apply. Not for a few years, at least. We're all very quick to point
      out to each other that sometimes when a boy isn't paying attention,
      it just means you haven't gotten his attention. Although now that I
      think about it Girls are usually oblivious, too. Your date with
      Hermione did get a lot of gossip and talk, but it's just
      talk..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Talk is never just talk</em>," Draco interrupted. Then,
      more softly, "Sorry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Daphne nodded, she saw his point. Draco hadn't asked what to do,
      he'd asked how he appeared to others. A subtle difference, but an
      important one. Daphne took seven more steps, then realized
      something she could say.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you remember last year during our battle in the Hallways,
      when I challenged Neville to a duel?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco nodded. She noticed that he'd straightened up as they got
      closer to the hall. He'd gone from looking like a tired boy to a
      bored noble over the last hundred steps, like Draco Malfoy could
      transfigure himself into the outward appearance he desired. His
      strides lengthened, although he'd slowed after starting to pull
      away from Daphne.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you ever consider <em class="calibre7">why</em>?" she asked him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To win the battle, obviously," Draco said, taking four steps.
      He suddenly stopped and turned towards her. Daphne blushed. At the
      time, she'd wanted people to notice. She'd felt annoyed they hadn't
      noticed...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So," Draco said, starting to walk again, "I think about it much
      more than anyone else? Just because I can say '<em class="calibre7">egocentric
      bias</em>' doesn't make me immune."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The nice thing about being with a fellow Bayesian Conspirator is
      that you could have public conversations and sometimes nobody else
      could follow. Harry called that the <em class="calibre7">Darmok effect</em> for no
      reason Daphne could see. They'd walked into the Great Hall now and
      sat down to breakfast. Draco's words drew few glances, everyone
      knew he sometimes spoke in the cryptic way more suited to Harry
      Potter than the Most Noble and Ancient House of Malfoy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No..." Daphne drawled the words out. There had been hours of
      discussion spread over the last few days. She'd discussed it with
      the Slytherin witches, who had noticed Padma's crush a few months
      ago and had wondered how she'd react to the news of Draco's date
      with Hermione. Tracey Davis had said Parvati had teased her sister
      during the entire second half of the train ride, until Hannah Abbot
      had stepped in to separate them. There had been ominous talk of
      love potions, duels, and an intra-family feud that would last a
      lifetime. Typical teenage girl declarations, the kind of thing that
      Daphne heard on a monthly basis.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's just say that witches don't assign you much agency," she
      said. "In this regard" she added hastily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco had cut up some fruit and took a bite, chewing slowly.
      Even though he'd paused to eat, it made him seem wise. <em class="calibre7">That
      really was good advice, to treat all questions with respect.</em>
      "So, I'm a plot's goal?" he said, after he swallowed. Several heads
      swung around to look at Draco and smile. The last two sentences had
      been easily to understand. Draco just rolled his eyes and mumbled
      "Witches" under his breath and Lesath Lestrange and Blaise Zabini
      just laughed and returned to their breakfast.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Daphne took a bite of her pancakes and chewed slowly. Two could
      play that game.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Only to the uninterested parties. And not a plot, a play. The
      audience mingles in the lobby during intermission, trying to guess
      the ending. Or at least the next scene. It's just a distraction
      from their problems for the evening."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And that's all?" Draco asked, before biting down on a
      strawberry. He'd tilted his head at her and she felt like they were
      playing a subtle game. This was a discussion about Draco's romantic
      life - or lack thereof - but they were sitting in the Slytherin
      table and students slowly streamed into the room. Padma would be
      walking in any minute now, as would Gregory. And Draco and Daphne
      were breaking one of the unwritten rules of dating: <em class="calibre7">witches
      don't conspire with wizards against witches.</em> She just assumed
      that wizards had a similar rule.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And the people around them had figured out the conversation. Or
      at least enough. She needed to be obscure enough, to
      <em class="calibre7">Darmok</em> the conversation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, random question, everyone." She spoke up, addressing the
      table around them. "Which city has the bigger population, Detroit
      or Milwaukee? And another pair, Edinburgh or Aberdeen? Wait, don't
      blurt out the answers. Everyone write down your answers. Or whisper
      them to me." She took out a scroll and quill and passed it around
      the table.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All of the Bayesian Conspirators had been reading up on
      cognitive biases and psychology, and Harry had - of course - given
      them all a <em class="calibre7">different</em> reading list so that they could take
      turns presenting their findings. For once Daphne knew something
      before the rest of the Conspiracy and she was going to use it. She
      got up from the table and leaned over and jotted down the answers
      that everyone gave, just putting tick marks. Then she went over to
      the other house tables and repeated the experiment, until she'd
      gotten enough responses.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She came back and set down the scrolls in front of Draco.
      "See?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory, Lesath, Blaise, all looked at the scroll. Tracey Davis,
      who'd just arrived as Daphne returned, looked over Daphne's
      shoulder as well, then just walked away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Detroit: 26, Milwaukee: 5</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Aberdeen: 13, Edinburgh:17 (Not sure:1)</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory said, "What are the right answers?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Daphne said, "Detroit and Edinburgh. People got it right,
      which you'd expect. Some people wouldn't know and they'd guess, and
      some people would know and they'd get the right answer. For things
      like this - questions of common knowledge - a poll usually gets the
      right answers. But that's not the <em class="calibre7">interesting</em> thing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lesath looked up from the scroll. "We were much more sure about
      Detroit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Daphne beamed. "Yes, and that doesn't make sense! Why are we
      much more sure about an American cities? In both cases the larger
      city is about twice the population of the smaller one. You'd think
      we'd know more about ours."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory said "Well, I hadn't heard of Milwaukee. So I figured it
      was smaller. But I wasn't sure about the other two. I got it right!
      But it was just a guess."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Daphne nodded. "Yes, when they originally did this experiment,
      it was in Germany and they used Hannover and Bielefeld as the local
      cities. And the Germans all knew that Detroit was bigger, but they
      were pretty evenly divided on the German cities. But when they
      asked a bunch of Americans, the percentages reversed. All the
      Americans knew Hanover was bigger. They'd never heard of Bielefled.
      But only sixty percent of Americans knew Detroit was bigger.
      Because all the Americans had heard of Milwaukee."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Weird," said Theodore Nott.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Daphne sat back down next to Draco, speaking softly. "It's
      called the <em class="calibre7">recognition heuristic</em>. People just assume that
      things they have heard of are bigger or more important than things
      they haven't heard of. It's a good rule of thumb, actually. It can
      lead you astray, of course, but as this example shows people who
      have more information don't necessarily do better." She took
      another bite of the pancake. The others were drifting away, as she
      lectured Draco on psychology.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The funny thing is the researchers were studying something
      else. It was a German guy, and the Hanover question was meant to be
      the easy question and the Detroit one was the hard question. But
      then the results came back ... and they had a new study."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Daphne leaned over to Draco, "Do you get what I'm trying to tell
      you?" she asked, glancing round the table and raising an eyebrow
      questioningly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco had finished the last of his fruit, but chewed slowly on a
      piece of buttered bread.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think I do, Miss Greengrass. I think I do. 'Do not meddle in
      the affairs of witches...'" He shoved the remaining toast into his
      mouth. Daphne could hear the end of the quote in her head. <em class="calibre7">For
      they are subtle and quick to anger.</em> Harry had said that
      several times over the last year, although with wizards instead of
      witches.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco finished chewing and then leaned over, smiling. "You are
      right, I wouldn't want too much information. Thanks for your
      help."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Author's Note</strong> - The recognition heuristic study
      was (accidentally) performed by Goldstein &amp; Gigerenzer in
      2001.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Currently Detroit's population is much closer to Milwaukee's,
      but it has lost 300,000+ people since the 1990 census. Picking UK
      examples was much tougher, because I don't understand how they
      define cities vs metropolitan areas. I may have gotten it
      technically wrong.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Darmok</em> (the Star Trek: Next Generation episode)
      originally aired on Sept 30, 1991.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
