<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2 - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 38: Wargames, Part 4, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s6" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 38: Wargames, Pt 4</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Friday night, 8pm</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">A loud knock on the oaken door and five figures shifted wands to
      cover it. Colin nodded to Theodore Nott, who said "Who's there?"
      loudly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry Potter," came the answer, in Harry's distinctive
      voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone relaxed, but Theodore shook his head. <em class="calibre7">There were
      traitors.</em> <em class="calibre7">Still, if Potter was a traitor they'd be in big
      trouble.</em> "Put a slip of your sleeve under the door. Or tell me
      the password."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know the password," came the rather arch reply, "and a
      traitor could know it in any case," but there was a rustling
      outside the door and a piece of a green cloth appeared under the
      door for a second, then disappeared. "This isn't a great position
      out here, you know. Not very defensible." The cloth disappeared.
      Colin looked around nervously and waved his hand, and Padma rushed
      over to the door and opened it a crack. Harry Potter slipped in,
      pushing the mussed hair away from his forehead and taking in the
      room in glance. Padma closed the door behind Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So," said Harry, "What do we know?"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Friday night, 8:15 pm</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione dived behind the couch, which blocked three
      <em class="calibre7">Somniums</em>. She probably could have dodged them, she'd
      dodged multiple spells in practice before. But she'd discussed it
      with Harry extensively over the week, what they should not reveal
      about her abilities during the battle. Harry argued they should
      both sit this out, like they'd resigned their General positions,
      but his heart hadn't been in it. He'd missed it. If he hadn't been
      so afraid of revealing Hermione's secrets, he'd still be out there,
      every battle. But while they could explain away missing classes
      because of their tutoring, missing all-school events was too much.
      Hermione already felt the distance between her and other students.
      Harry had lived with it last year, but he was psychologically
      distant from most people anyway. Hermione missed the
      camaraderie.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry probably missed it to, judging by how easily he'd given
      in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She could hear Ron Weasley moving to flank her while Parvati
      Patil and Seamus Finnigan kept up a steady stream of spells. She
      could rush Ron, tackle him and get out of the room, but that would
      look suspicious. Weasley wasn't a great Wizard, but he was
      athletic. No, she'd need some other way out. She'd left the Cloak
      of Invisibility in her room. They definitely wouldn't reveal that,
      just for a game.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione would reveal an <em class="calibre7">in-game</em> secret.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I bet in Slytherin they are all quietly plotting,</em> she
      thought, as she looked around the Gryffindor common room for
      something useful. <em class="calibre7">Probably in Ravenclaw, too. But no,
      Gryffindors just join up with the nearest group and start
      attacking.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Although she had to admit that, as strategies went, it was
      surprisingly hard to argue against. At least, not from her current
      position of almost being one of the first casualties of war.
      Hermione poked her head above the couch. Ron had used several large
      chairs to move over behind a small chess table, that he noisily
      flipped over, then crouched behind. For some reason he'd ignored
      the perfectly good shield hanging on the wall behind him. It had
      belonged to Iucounu the Silent in the sixteen hundreds, who'd used
      it to defeat a small goblin army singlehandedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So <em class="calibre7">of course</em> Gryffindor had claimed him as one of their
      own, even though he'd never gone to Hogwarts. Apparently the
      thought of <em class="calibre7">actually using</em> the shield never occurred to
      Ron. It would easily stop Somnium spells, practically anything
      would. The shield itself was an older Roman design used by
      Legionnaires, meant to cover the front lines from attacking
      archers, and would be quite useful against a variety of spells. She
      dropped to her hands and knees and then, raising her wand</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Accio Shield!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Iucounu's shield lifted off the wall and flew towards her,
      bowling Ron over and knocking him from out behind the overturned
      table and into a clearing. She used her left hand to catch the
      shield edge first and with her right hand cast <em class="calibre7">Somnium</em> on
      Ron, whose robes turned from a deep purple to crimson red.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even if Ron had been watching, instead of rolling around
      grabbing the back of his head where the shield hit, he likely
      wouldn't have noticed Hermione's coordination. She could hear the
      surprise from Parvati and Seamus exchanged words, mostly gibberish
      but she heard the word <em class="calibre7">Accio</em> easily enough. Her
      instructions had given her a list of spells to pick from. She'd
      almost gone with <em class="calibre7">Glisseo</em> or <em class="calibre7">Stupefy</em>. But she'd
      decided <em class="calibre7">Accio</em> would more useful and have the element of
      surprise, since the summoning charm was normally taught to fourth
      years.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now she had to deal with Parvati and Seamus, to <em class="calibre7">keep</em>
      the element of surprise for as long as possible. That would have
      been difficult, a minute ago.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now she had a shield.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione strapped it onto her left arm and started walking
      towards them.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Saturday, 1 am</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lesath Lestrange watched as Draco talked to his Patronus, a
      silver Krait whispering in Draco's voice in that bizarre language
      that the Green Robes spoke. He didn't really trust Draco Malfoy, it
      was practically too good to be true that one of the cleverest
      Slytherins <em class="calibre7">also happened to be able to speak the enemy
      language</em>. On the other hand, the cleverest Slytherin was
      advising Colin Creevey - or so he'd been informed - so he took his
      luck where he could get it. Now Draco was speaking to his Patronus,
      easily understandable as he'd switched back to English.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go to each of the Purple leaders, and ask if they have anything
      to report. Inform them that Slytherin fight goes slowly, we have a
      lot of rooms in this dungeon and there's a definite advantage to
      defending, so we're not charging around the place blindly. We could
      send a team or two if you had some specific requirements," Draco
      glanced at Lesath, who nodded at this, and Draco continued, "but
      we'd need to know why. I'm looking for any information you have on
      identifying traitors. I believe that the password for neutrals
      secretly loyal to green may be 'Salamander,' but that's not 100%.
      May just be for Slytherins."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco finished up and his Patronus slithered away right through
      the door, probably towards Ravenclaw first. Lesath resumed his
      pacing. It had been exciting, drawing the sash of leadership, and
      he'd spent the first hour rushing around until Draco and Gregory
      found him and convinced him to hole up. He wasn't in that much
      danger, he could use any spell he knew - a perk of leadership - and
      probably nobody else knew their way around the dungeons as well,
      due to his years of skulking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But Draco had pointed out that if he kept wandering around he
      would eventually run into a pack of green Slytherins, and then he'd
      be in trouble. So they'd set up camp in a defensible position,
      advertised it widely enough to make sure that people could deliver
      any information.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Leadership is much more tedious than I imagined it," Lesath
      said to Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">The inverse of authority is responsibility.</em> You are in
      charge, so you can't just go run around and do what you want. I
      imagine Gregory is having loads of fun right now, flying around.
      He'll have plenty of excitement and stories on Monday."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If he doesn't die right away," Lesath added. "Tell me, what's
      it like, hearing the Green people speak."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It just sounds like they've got a ridiculous French accent.
      It's how I can tell they are speaking Green. I need to copy the
      accent to speak it to them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's actually kind of funny," Lesath said, then fell silent.
      "Do we have a plan, yet? I think I see one, with the new
      information we've got. With Percy Weasley killed we have the
      advantage..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco was shaking his head. "That's a scoreboard advantage, not
      a positional advantage. Necessary, but not sufficient. Losses on
      both sides are roughly even among Gryffindors and so the Survivors
      are abandoning the towers and heading out to just attack purples
      wherever they can. And you know they'll probably attack us first,
      once they secure someone that can help guide them down here.
      Granger's rumoured to have taken out a half dozen of us, and I
      believe those rumours. They have just the right hint of
      improbability, if that makes sense. Actually, if they do plan on
      attacking we could use my room as a base of operations. Those
      bridges just outside are a natural chokepoint. But a guide will
      know that..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lesath sighed. Draco was just thinking out loud, he didn't need
      to pay attention. Lesath instinctively knew that Lord Potter would
      want him to do his best and win this war as purple, despite being
      on the green side. It would keep people from suspecting that he was
      Potter's vassal. The experience would strengthen him for the coming
      years. But he also knew - because everyone knew - that his Lord
      would try his fullest to win as Green. Lesath had been acquiring
      power steadily over the last year, but personal power. Magical
      power. Socially, he still avoided most Slytherins although Potter
      had asked him to relax and make friends.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Being ordered to make friends didn't make it easier,</em> it
      felt like being ordered to not think of elephants. The order
      contradicted the intent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lesath realized he'd been ignoring Draco and focused. Draco was
      still talking about the entrance to the dungeons.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draco, How do you learn to become a leader? Is there a crash
      course you can give me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco stopped for a second and considered. Lesath felt doubt
      gnawing at him when Draco replied "Of course I can, but since it's
      a crash course I'm going to skip details. The first and hardest
      step is to project confidence. When in doubt, over do it. At least
      in public..."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Saturday, 7:30 am.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Great Hall normally bustled during breakfast. A typical
      Saturday wasn't nearly as busy, many students preferred to sleep in
      late and just skip breakfast unless there was an early Quiddich
      game or battle they had to attend. But today's breakfast was
      particularly sparse. Each table had only a few dozen students
      sitting at it. The Slytherin table held mainly green robes, and the
      Gryffindor table at the other end held purple robes only. The two
      middle tables had mainly neutral robes, or students wearing Red.
      The dead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm surprised they aren't in open warfare," Minerva McGonagall
      said to Professor Lockhart, who sat at her side picking at a small
      omelet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When you were in the order of the Phoenix, you still took time
      out for meals, as did Death Eaters," he replied, lifting a forkful
      of eggs into his mouth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not in the same room," she pointed out. "How does it go?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unexpectedly. I'd expected surprises, but Hufflepuffs
      inflicting the most casualties in their struggle? Hadn't expected
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, of course they did," said Pomona Spout, who'd shuffled up
      to the table on the other side of the Headmistress and sat down.
      "Gilderoy, Minerva. We're the House of Getting Things Done, even if
      '<em class="calibre7">Things</em>' are your silly games. If you'd paid attention at
      all ... but Headmistress, I must protest. The students have broken
      into the gardens and stolen things."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure they will return them once this is over," said
      Minerva, "won't they, <em class="calibre7">Professor Lockhart?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gilderoy Lockhart smiled, full of unabashed delight.
      "<em class="calibre7">Wonderful!</em> I'd expected them to raid the potions stores
      and Professor Slughorn set up defenses. Why, young Mr. Vaughn is
      wearing red robes because of one of Horace's traps, although his
      compatriots escaped with enough compounds to brew several dozen
      <em class="calibre7">Pepperup</em> potions ..." he trailed off under Spout's
      withering glare. "Well, yes, I should have informed you as well, I
      do apologize, but it honestly slipped my mind. I must admit I was
      never much for <em class="calibre7">Herbology..."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know," said Pomona, coldly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Although now that I think about it, I do have some friends who
      can import some excellent plants and some new books for the
      library, although we'll have to get them translated from
      Spanish...but do tell me what they've taken!"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Saturday, 11 am.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had been helping Padma coordinate the Green Gryffindor's
      assault on Slytherin. They'd tried to smuggle a guide or two out
      past the purples, but so far they'd all been turned back or killed.
      Colin's leadership was mixed, at best, but they were muddling
      along. Several people had openly ignored Colin and waited for Harry
      to give an order, but he'd just offered advice and backed whatever
      the Green Leader had ordered. It wasn't a great simulation, having
      random leaders. But given the short time frame an internal power
      struggle could be devastating. So, he'd quietly taken aside some
      dissenters and talked them down. He'd spent several hours last
      night doing that, which also allowed him to try and feel out who
      (if anybody) may be a traitor and who just felt annoyed at having
      to take orders from a first year.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It gave him some empathy for what he'd done to Amelia Bones.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But they'd sorted the situation out and the plans had been going
      smoothly (if slowly) for several hours. Currently Harry was
      coordinating the Green Slytherins capable of casting a
      <em class="calibre7">patronus</em> spells to communicate with the other green
      factions. They were planning an assault on the Slytherin house. It
      would be hopeless, nobody from outside would be able to navigate
      down here, and the bridge itself served as a formidable defensive
      position. They'd tried to sneak some people out to help, but they'd
      been unsuccessful. Still, Harry's proposed plan had been accepted.
      Now they were just coordinating. They needed to time the assault
      with their attack on the other side of the bridge, and have both go
      simultaneously with a feint against Lestrange's room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Coordinating these things was infuriatingly slow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had been proposing noon when he saw Peregrine Derrick
      start to cast. Harry shouted and had his wand out, but Nott stood
      between him and Derrick. Harry didn't have a shot, so he pointed
      his wand at Colin and shouted <em class="calibre7">Expelliarmus.</em> Colin's wand
      flew out of his hand right before Derrick's <em class="calibre7">Stupefy</em> hit
      him squarely in the back. Then Harry hit the floor and rolled,
      everyone had their wands out and spells were flying. Harry shouted
      "Take him alive!" and then cast <em class="calibre7">Expelliarmus</em> at Derrick
      and saw his wand go flying. Chaotic Theodore - Harry still thought
      of him that way, even though he was in Basilisk now - had managed
      to jump on the loose wand and now had it pointed at Derrick, who
      had his hands up and stood motionless.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Colin Creevey lay sprawled across the floor, his robes were
      bright red but there was no sash on them. Harry looked down at his
      own robes and their new adornment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It worked!" said Peregrine Derrick, "Although I thought I would
      be leader, that doesn't matter. Harry's better at this than I am,
      but the important thing is that now we aren't hampered by that
      sniveling little"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, you are saying you aren't the traitor?" Padma asked,
      beating Harry to the punch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Obviously. The green leader isn't dead. Just look," said
      Peregrine, lowering his hands. He didn't have a wand, so there was
      no point. "If a player kills their own leader, that isn't a death.
      Just a <em class="calibre7">change of command.</em> I mean, obviously its still a
      death, and I'm sorry, but Colin wasn't a great loss..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry thought about it. He'd vetted Peregrine, and didn't
      believe he'd been a traitor. Of course, that could be biasing him
      right now, he didn't want to admit that he could be wrong. But
      Peregrine was an obvious candidate for being a traitor, since he
      spoke Purple, one of the few bilingual wizards they had. But
      Peregrine had volunteered the information, and provided useful
      information for the last twelve hours. Information that Harry had
      taken pains to confirm independently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did you know it would work?" Harry asked, and everyone fell
      silent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I overheard some Purples when they were coming back from
      the fourth level restroom, the one a few halls away from where
      they've set up shop. They are planning on getting rid of Lestrange.
      He's not very popular, as you know. They didn't know that I was
      hiding and they were just going to take command."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see. And they weren't just putting on a show for you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, they were speaking in Purple. Even if they knew I was
      there, they weren't speaking to me. Gregory was warning Draco not
      to try a coup..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draco?" Harry cast his mind back to last night after the
      lottery, at the weird way Draco had acted. He groaned and almost
      slapped his forehead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, he said he'd just stupefy Lesath later on, maybe after
      lunch and blame some random green person. Look, I could only hear
      them for a minute or two, and they were being quiet so that nobody
      else could hear them, so it was good information. I knew if I told
      you, Harry, you'd just try to talk me out of it or kill me as a
      traitor, but we had to get rid of Colin. No offense."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He directed the last bit towards Colin Creevey, who had gotten
      shakily up to his feet and walked over to grab his wand. He
      couldn't speak, of course, but he glared at Peregrine Derrick as he
      snatched the wand of the floor and stomped out. Harry called out an
      apology, to no avail. Then he said "Wait!" and Colin's retreating
      form stopped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned to Peregrine. "I don't think you were a traitor,
      Peregrine. And honestly, it wasn't even stupid, just an honest
      mistake. I don't think you are a traitor. <em class="calibre7">Somnium.</em>"
      Peregrine Derrick crumpled to the ground, and his robes were bright
      red before he hit the floor. "But we can't let people we're
      supposed to to trust do things like that." Harry walked over to
      Chaotic Theodore and took Derrick's wand and flipped it over to
      Colin. "When he wakes up I'll tell him to find you to get his wand
      back. I'm sorry Colin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Colin caught the wand, but he was still gritting his teeth.
      Padma looked at Harry then Colin, putting it together. "Harry could
      have taken command whenever he wanted to. He only did it when you
      were going to be killed in any case. Maybe you should be mad it
      him, but nobody else saw it coming either." She moved away from the
      body on the ground. Nobody moved to wake up Peregrine Derrick as
      Colin Creevey walked off, shoulders slouched.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
