<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2 - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 40: Chess and other Wargames, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s8" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 40: Chess and other Wargames</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Saturday, 10pm.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco Malfoy bolted upright as Harry flew through the doorway,
      wand out, firing spells rapidly into each corner of the room. Harry
      saw one spell fizzle - hitting the ward - in front of Draco's
      bewildered face before landing on his cot beside the door. Harry
      lifted up his head and looked around the room, empty save for his
      blond roommate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry if I woke you, Draco," Harry said. Harry had been awake
      since 6pm last night, having adjusted his sleep schedule in
      preparation for the wargame. He'd been up nearly twenty eight hours
      at this point and wasn't tired yet, but with the battle still
      raging inside the dungeons he needed to get ready. Harry didn't
      trust any place without serious warding and dare not wait until
      sleep started pounding his judgement like a snare drum, so he'd
      arrived in bed early.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Normally his extra long sleep cycle was an advantage, if you had
      a time turner at least, but Harry couldn't stretch out multiple
      all-nighters with only cat naps. Others had offered him time to
      sleep, during the small pause after the Battle of Slytherin Bridge,
      but his body just didn't work like that. He needed a long break.
      Harry was going to crash, and soon. Draco stared at Harry's sash
      and said something, shaking his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, come off it Draco. I know you understand me," Harry said.
      Draco cocked his head and shrugged, his gesture clearly saying
      <em class="calibre7">I don't know</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry raised his voice so that anyone nearby could hear him.
      "So, I talked to The-Girl-Who-Revived about your date, and she
      mentioned some <em class="calibre7">interesting</em> facts about flower
      arrangements. I hadn't realized..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"OK, OK," Draco said. "Just. <em class="calibre7">Sheesh</em>. Keep a sense of
      proportion. I thought I'd done well. What did I do wrong?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Even <em class="calibre7">you</em> need feedback to figure out how to trip up
      people spying on you. I could believe you'd feed random
      misinformation to spies. It's not a huge stretch to imagine that
      anyone who tried to spy on you would understand you, although that
      would be much more obvious to someone who was bilingual. No, your
      plan to convince Derrick to kill Colin Creevey was <em class="calibre7">too</em>
      inspired. He already wanted to do it, he'd been chafing at working
      for a first year. You overheard their grumbling, and your plan felt
      absolutely perfect. Then I remembered when the spell first hit. You
      kept looking to Gregory to see how he was acting, like you weren't
      sure what was going on. If you actually didn't understand me, that
      would be one thing. But you did and Gregory didn't, so you had to
      gauge your reaction. I should have known then, but I missed it.
      Once I found it it was you that Derrick conveniently overheard, I
      was almost certain. And now <em class="calibre7">you just spoke to me in Green</em>
      which is pretty good proof, considering."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smirked at the last few words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, if I hadn't spoken up just now and was actually innocent,
      you'd blab about Hermione to everyone." Draco adjusted his pillow
      so that he could lean back comfortably against the wall, then
      folded his hands across his chest. "Just to try and confirm
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was ... 95% certain," Harry said, shrugging. "And there's
      nobody out in the hall to overhear. But you had a good plan. Tell
      me, did you know that it was possible to coup a leader?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd heard a rumour to that effect. Hadn't confirmed it, but
      that didn't matter. Just my luck that you actually had that tidbit
      of information. Who told you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Started with it. But that isn't nearly as lucky as starting out
      bilingual. This war would have wrapped up three hours ago if I'd
      had that. War's chaotic uncertainty, you have to love it. Anyway,
      sorry if I woke you," Harry said. Draco just harrumphed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wasn't asleep yet," he said. "But I was in the area and felt
      better safe than sorry. I'm pretty tired, I didn't catch any breaks
      last night. You?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope," Harry yawned. Draco hadn't slept much Thursday night
      either, not that Harry could remember. "You haven't been sleeping
      well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Too interesting to sleep."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I meant in general, you haven't been sleeping well. Is
      everything OK? I mean you could take a <em class="calibre7">Doorahkah</em> potion,
      it doesn't keep you under, like the regular sleeping draught, but
      I'm told it makes it helps you fall asleep. It's not that potent,
      just the wizarding equivalent of warm milk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I hadn't heard of that," said Draco. "Is it easy to make?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not too difficult. We've got the gubba nub nub plants on
      campus. Well, we did as of two days ago, I'm not sure we do now. We
      could brew up a pretty decent supply in a day or two. Maybe monday
      afternoon?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That sounds good," Draco said. "Although now I'm not really
      tired. Having someone fly into your room Auror Woo-style, all
      jumping sideways and firing blindly does that to me. A game of
      chess?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure." Draco set down his wand and leaned over to his desk. He
      was still on his cot, just grabbing pieces. He took a chess board
      and tossed it down to the middle of the room, where it landed with
      a dull splat. Harry put down his wand, his chess pieces were under
      his cot, and he reached under it until he felt the bag. "You know,
      I have no idea how the <em class="calibre7">Babel</em> spell affects this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I just assumed they'd understand us. But I think it will work.
      After all, they are tied to us." Draco carefully emptied his bag of
      pieces on the floor and then said something that Harry couldn't
      understand. A few of Draco's green pieces grumbled backtalk, but
      they all started trudging away from Draco's cot to the middle of
      the room and taking their assigned positions on the chess board.
      Harry carefully leaned down and rolled his pieces out of the bag
      and told them to go to the board.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The silver King just looked up at him and said "At this hour?
      Surely you jest!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not kidding, and stop calling me Shirley," Harry said,
      pointing to the board. His pieces started the long march. Draco
      watched them moving slowly across the floor, like regal metallic
      roaches spreading out towards the board.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I assume, Harry being Potter and all, that you've already come
      up with a plan on how you are going to get out of bed in the
      morning," Draco said. Most of his pieces were already on the board,
      since it had landed closer to his side of the room and they'd
      gotten a head start. They were now calling out to the silver
      pieces, exhorting them to hurry up, but neither side's chessmen
      could understand the other, so they eventually got bored when their
      enemy ignored them and quieted down. A few of his pieces fell
      asleep where they stood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not like I'd tell you what it was. I have a few options,
      of course. I'm not going through the pool, if that's what you are
      asking. I'm not exactly sure what happened, but I've got a few
      theories. It's like the sunlight potion ... I don't need to know
      exactly what you did to know it's a bad idea."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco chuckled in the maniacal fashion Harry sometimes did, then
      said "Pawn to Queen Four, please." He actually said it twice, once
      in gibberish for his pieces, and then translated for Harry's sake.
      He had to repeat the command a few times, but his queen pawn hopped
      forward twice. Harry couldn't recall pawns hopping before, they
      usually just walked. Maybe it was punch-drunk because of the
      time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How's Lesath doing? I mean, in general, nothing specific. Pawn
      to Queen Four, let's just go with a conservative game for now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, he's doing fine. I mean, he doesn't really command respect
      but neither did Colin. Lesath's ... a solid performer. You know how
      our House is, Lesath's old enough and talented enough that we
      tolerate him. If Derrick hadn't been hopped up he'd have realized
      my plan to take out Lestrange would generate more ill will in the
      real world than any amount of glory I'd gain this weekend. But if
      he were clever he wouldn't be a bully. Pawn to Queen Bishop Four.
      <em class="calibre7">Chop chop! Wake up!</em> Lesath's got a good tactical grasp of
      the situation. He reminds me of Snape, in some ways. Obviously
      without the experience but he could blossom."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wanted a simple game, since he could feel himself getting
      tired. He probably shouldn't have agreed to this. "Pawn takes pawn.
      That's good to hear. I don't think Colin took the coup very well,
      though. I did what I could to make it better."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's just a battle. Do you want me to talk with him? I teach
      monday's lecture and I could ... <em class="calibre7">Oh, I teach monday's
      lecture</em>! How am I going to have time to prepare? Anyway, I can
      pull him aside. I mean, we've all been there, losing a battle
      stings no matter how it happens. Pawn to king four."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The game proceeded. By now Harry and Draco were both good enough
      to avoid blunders, so each focused on limiting the other's options
      while accumulating small advantages. Enough small advantages would
      become a big advantage. A big advantage forced the other player
      into a defensive position, to answer threats with forced responses.
      And it was easy to plan, when your opponent's moves were all
      forced. Until then, the game felt equal.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Being murdered by a non-traitor on your side who seriously
      thought he was doing the right thing? That has to hurt."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lockhart shouldn't have made everything random. Let the teams
      pick their leader, or something. And he should have probably
      limited magical devices," Draco said as the game moved from opening
      into middle game, "there were a couple of close calls that I'm
      aware of."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think the Headmistress will fix that flaw for next time,"
      said Harry. <em class="calibre7">If there is a next time</em>.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Sunday 7.45 am</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Great Hall, significantly fuller than yesterday, turned as
      Draco Malfoy strode forcefully into the Hall, Nimbus in hand. Each
      of his footfalls had an accompanying squish and his brilliant
      purple robes dripped profusely even though he'd stopped to wring
      them out. He kept carefully to the purple side of the room -
      thankfully the unwritten truce had held for another day. The two
      center tables of red-robed students erupted into laughter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Apparently the edict against dead people talking didn't apply to
      laughter. Draco ignored them all as he squished his way to the main
      table and Professor Lockhart, who had the good taste to have a
      somber face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor, since unauthorized spells result in
      disqualification," Draco said, spreading his arms wide, "I was
      wondering if I could ask you a favor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Lockhart took out his wand and wordlessly passed it
      across Draco's form, at which point the robes instantly dried and
      even felt pleasantly warm for a change. He leaned down and said,
      somewhat quietly, "The Hot Air charm has it's uses, but if you live
      in a jungle for any time you'll want to be more efficient. It's not
      completely simple, but if you'd like I can show you how to cast
      that later this week."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, Professor," Draco said loudly and walked - footfalls
      sounding normal - back to the purple table. He put down his broom,
      took a plate, and some food.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What happened?" Neville asked. <em class="calibre7"><br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco finished chewing his piece of grapefruit. It provided a
      not-unpleasant shock, now that he was dry. "Well, I woke up and
      Gregory was sprawled out in the middle of our floor, robes red.
      Harry probably set some guards on the room for when I left, and
      they must have surprised him, and they didn't bother waking him up.
      I guess they were afraid that Harry or I had trapped the room."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And did you?" asked Daphne Greengrass. She wasn't a purple
      robe, she was neutral, but this was also the Slytherin table. She
      hadn't done anything overtly biased, but Draco had made sure he
      could keep her in his field of view.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco noticed that the red robes on the next Hufflepuff table
      were following the conversation intently, but just shrugged.
      "Nothing extravagant. But anyway, Gregory's broom wasn't out which
      meant it was still at the bottom of the pool so I managed to get in
      to there and get through the tunnel and burst out of the water.
      They had guards, but they were sleeping and I guess they hadn't
      expected someone to come out of the water. Anyway, I got past them
      and here I am. What's the situation?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think either side is going to eliminate the others
      leaders by dinner," said Neville. "Both Slytherin leaders are still
      alive, Katie Bell is still running Purple in Gryffindor, and Roger
      Davies is running Green in Ravenclaw."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Davies," said Draco, "I though it was, uh," he paused, blanking
      on the name, "Hillard. The one who was held back a year?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, Davies overthrew him last night," said Neville. "Word got
      out after Harry took command from Colin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It wasn't like that," said Daphne, "Harry wouldn't do
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco agreed internally, but Daphne's defense of Harry seemed
      odd. Draco would expect a neutral to be careful when complementing
      the enemy's leader. Doing that implied complete confidence, and
      honestly Draco didn't trust everyone at this table who wore purple.
      How could Daphne be so sure she wasn't executed as a spy? Draco
      looked up from his grapefruit as the far doors burst open and a
      dozen greens ran into the room, wands out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Run</em>," Draco yelled and jumped up from the table. He
      grabbed the broom, tossed it in front of him while saying "Up" and
      jumped onto it in one smooth motion. (He'd actually practiced that
      with Gregory during martial arts. It really only saved a second or
      two from a standing start, but everyone agreed it looked
      <em class="calibre7">amazing).</em> He flew for the near door and then realized he'd
      have guarded it before sending in a huge number of visible troops,
      so he swerved away just before it opened, revealing more green
      troops. Draco saw Daphne fire a <em class="calibre7">stupefy</em> into Neville's
      back so he <em class="calibre7">Somnum</em>ed her and she sprawled onto the ground,
      her robes flickered to green briefly, before turning red. <em class="calibre7">No
      wonder she'd been projecting confidence. It was just an act</em>.
      Many red robed students sitting in the middle tables raised
      personal shields, not to affect the battle but just to make sure
      that they weren't shot by accident.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco yelled "We need to," but didn't finish. Several spells
      impacted on him at once and as he crashed into the Slytherin table,
      his last thought was <em class="calibre7">Realism is overrated.</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Author's Note</strong> - it has been pointed out that
      the Fidelus Charm isn't really HPMOR canon. Lockhart/Harry used the
      name ("Fidelus") as a descriptive shorthand to indicate "safety." I
      have updated this chapter accordingly. It was not my intent to
      divert from canon.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
