<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Ginny Weasley and the Methods of Rationality - Ginny Weasley and the Methods of Rationality Chapter 1: A Day of Rather High Probability, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Ginny Weasley and the Methods of Rationality"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1: A Day of Rather High Probability</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">*Millions of eyes are watching*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">*A hand is raised*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">*Red light flashes and someone whispers a word*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Ginny Weasley woke one morning from uneasy dreams, she found
      herself in her bed, transfigured into a gigantic insect-like
      creature.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I will kill Fred and George, she thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">How dare they do this on my first day of Hogw…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then her alarm clock rang and she actually woke up. After she
      had checked that she was not an insect, but a perfectly normal
      eleven year old girl, she relaxed a bit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was not the first time she experienced such a false
      awakening. In fact, it had happened quite often ever since she read
      about lucid dreaming in one of these muggle books her father
      collected and started practising it. But it was still scary.
      However she was sure that it was worth it. The book said you could
      practise movements while dreaming and considering what she knew
      about the process of learning spells that would really come in
      handy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She continued to let her mind wander and started to think about
      Hogwarts. For as long as she could remember some of her older
      brothers went off to Hogwarts in early September. First only Bill
      and Charlie, then Percy, Fred and George, and finally Ron. But this
      year she would not be left behind. She had bought her wand and her
      schoolbooks in Diagon Alley the day before and would finally start
      to learn magic. But the prospect of learning magic wasn't even the
      most exciting part. The thing she looked forward to the most was
      meeting Harry Potter. He was so awesome. He defeated the Dark Lord
      as a child and her brother told her about all the things he did
      during the army battles of the last Hogwarts year. And there had
      even been an article in the Quibbler that he was involved in the
      defeat of the Dark Lord, after he rose again last summer. Although
      the story was quite strange, it basically said that Harry Potter
      was David Monroe pretending to be Harry Potter, and though the
      Quibbler was not the most reliable source of information, she was
      sure that Harry had saved them all again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She did not know when she had fallen in love with Harry Potter.
      She was not sure how this could have happened, considering that she
      never met him before, but she just felt that they were meant to be
      together in the end no matter what might happen in between. She was
      still thinking about Harry when she heard a voice from
      downstairs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"GINEVRA WEASLEY," her mother screamed. She sounded like someone
      trying to impersonate a howler.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hurry, your eggs are getting cold and we're going to miss the
      train."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Realising how much time had passed since the alarm clock rang,
      she jumped out of her bed, dressed and went downstairs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The other Weasley family members were already sitting at the
      table and were halfway through their breakfast when she arrived.
      Percy was lecturing Fred and George on how they had to work harder
      this year, as their OWLs were coming up next year and they would
      need to start getting their things together now, if they wanted to
      have any chance in passing them. Ron was telling his father that he
      was sure that he would be the general of an army this year and
      began explaining his strategy for the first battle. Ginny was not
      convinced. She liked her brother and he was quite good at chess, so
      he had to be a good strategic thinker, but she still could not
      imagine him competing with the likes of Harry Potter and Draco
      Malfoy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before she sat down she let her mother perform the body cleaning
      charm on her. A couple of seconds later she felt clean and
      refreshed and began eating her toast. She was thinking again about
      how grateful she was that she lived in a wizarding family. She knew
      that muggles had to spend quite a lot of time in the shower every
      morning in order to get clean. She had seen such a device in the
      storage room where her father kept all the Muggle artefacts he was
      so obsessed about and the thought of having to step into it and let
      it spill water over her head every morning was not very pleasant.
      It would take hours for her long thick hair to dry and she would
      probably catch a cold if she had to go outside with wet hair. She
      knew that there were showers In Hogwarts, for the muggleborns who
      could not get used to magical cleaning. And she heard that even
      some wizard born children actually used them though she could not
      understand why.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Finish your food, we have to leave," said Molly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mum, why can't we take the floo network", asked Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I told you, they started charging money for using the floo
      office at Kings Cross on the first day of Hogwarts. You remember
      how much of a mess it was with so many people arriving there at the
      same time. There were even frequent accidents with people bumping
      into each other if someone left the fire too slow. Now it is going
      to be much more pleasant for the people who can still afford it.
      Sadly we do not belong to those people. We are going to take the
      car. Be glad that your father managed to acquire such a thing and
      we don't have to use the public muggle transport like two years
      ago".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny was indeed glad about that. They had been out of floo
      powder at that time and Ginny remembered public muggle transport as
      beeing incredibly unreliable. She really did not want to be late to
      the train for her first trip to Hogwarts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A couple of hour later the Weasley family was standing at Kings
      Cross station in front of the wall between Platform nine and
      platform ten, waiting for a moment when no Muggles were watching to
      pass through the wall to platform 9 ¾. Ginny had always been
      wondering why the platform was called 9 ¾ and not 9 ½ but no one
      had been able to explain it to her. So she just accepted that most
      of her fellow wizards were not really good with numbers. She had
      always liked numbers and taught herself a bit of maths with a
      textbook from her father's muggle library. Sometimes she thought it
      might not have been too bad to go to receive some basic muggle
      education, although most of the things muggles learned were useless
      if you could do magic. She had even asked her parents once, if she
      could visit a muggle school, since she had nothing better to do
      with her time, besides sitting at home and waiting until she was
      finally old enough to go to Hogwarts, but her father's love for
      muggles had not extended so far as to allow his daughter to be
      taught by one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a few minutes all of them had managed to pass through the
      wall unseen and were now standing in front of the Hogwarts express.
      Since they were already quite late there was no time for long
      farewells and they immediately boarded the train. A few seconds
      later her brothers had all left, looking for their friends from
      school and leaving her behind. She was quite happy with that
      because she was also looking for somebody. She pulled her trunk
      past several compartments until she finally found the one she was
      looking for. Inside it sat a boy with black hair and a lightning
      scar on his head. To Ginnys surprise and her delight he was alone.
      Hermione Granger, who, as her brothers told her, was usually with
      him, was nowhere to be found. Harry looked up from his book as she
      entered the compartment and said:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hi, I'm Harry Potter-Evans-Verres, but I'm sure you already
      know that, since everyone in the wizarding world seems to. Judging
      from your look you are probably a Weasley, most likely the little
      sister Fred and George told me about. Ginny was the name,
      right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny was paralyzed. She usually found it easy to relate to
      people and was quite talkative but the fact that Harry Potter knew
      that she existed, even knew her name was too much for her to take.
      Her head turned as red as her hair and she stood in the compartment
      door in complete silence.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
