<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>14. Dark Lord Material - Dark Lord Material Chapter 2 Intent to Kill, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="14. Dark Lord Material"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 2: Intent to Kill</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">This is a spin off of Less Wrongs Harry Potter and the
      Methods of Rationality Fanfiction. All idea's and characters go to
      him and J.K. Rowling. I just couldn't resist jumping in on the
      fun.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">If you have not read Methods of Rationality, please stop
      what you are doing and read it NOW! It is awesomeness in a
      can.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">And now, please enjoy my fanfiction, of a
      fanfiction.</strong></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Chapter Two</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Intent to Kill</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The rat was dead. Harry had willed it to die, and so it did.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">Wait, what? That's it?</em> Harry's brain had caught up with
      that thought. <em class="calibre9">That's the key to the unblockable Avada Kedavra?
      Wanting to kill something?</em> His cool dark side was rapidly
      receding as some part of Harry recognized the horror of what he'd
      just done.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd killed something. He'd really meant to kill something and
      it had died.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The rat cage lifted of its own accord and drifted over to
      Professor Quirrell. The class hadn't been very talkative, but even
      Malfoy's muttered instructions cut off. A dead silence hung in the
      air. (no pun intended)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Defense Professor inspected the rat with an unreadable look.
      "Ten points to Ravenclaw for mastering Avada Kedavra on your first
      attempt, Potter," he drawled softly. With a wave of his hand the
      caged rat disappeared in a wisp of black smoke. Lucius made a
      strangled sound from somewhere behind Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What? No I didn't!" Harry snapped. A different kind of anger
      was filling him now and there certainly wasn't anything cold about
      it. <em class="calibre9">There is no way it can be that easy!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell arched a brow. "You do not believe me? I see
      that you are not alone in this. Perhaps another demonstration
      should convince you and Lord Malfoy." Another rat appeared on the
      pedestal.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned to glare at it. He was angry, that was certain, but
      the moment he started preparation for the spell he managed to block
      off that anger, focusing his intent on killing the rat. He flicked
      his wand. "<em class="calibre9">Avadakedavra</em>," his voice grew cool and
      collected as he said it and once again a jet of green light left
      his wand tip and struck the rat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It fell over, completely limp.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a pause before Harry insisted, "It's just a rat… I
      can't have mastered the spell. Killing a person, a wizard would be
      much harder."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I suppose a human would have moved, but then again if they
      were caged they wouldn't have gotten very far," the Defense
      Professor said, and though Harry was still staring at the dead rat,
      he could just picture that sardonic smile on Quirrells lips.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry said and turned to face the Professor. The strange
      anger was coming back to him now that he wasn't focused on the
      spell. "There is no way I mastered a spell capable of killing
      anything and everything on my first attempt. That is just
      ridiculous."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He didn't know how he knew it, but in this moment the universe
      was laughing at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I told you, Potter, on your first day that you'd be the most
      dangerous student in your year. You had not believed me, and now
      you see why," he gestured to the second dead rat. "It is your
      intent to kill that makes the Avada Kedavra curse so easy to you.
      No other student in this classrooms intent to kill comes remotely
      close to yours. You will go to whatever lengths to kill your enemy
      without flinching, without the slightest hesitation, not when you
      really mean it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you telling me," Harry said slowly, coolly, not in any way
      calm. "that all you have to do is just want something to die, say
      Avada Kedavra and then it just <em class="calibre9">does</em>? That is—that's just-
      what the hell! It can't be that easy! Not when-" Harry had to stop
      himself from finishing the sentence. <em class="calibre9">Not when the counter was
      so difficult to learn…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what do you mean my intent to kill is stronger than
      everyone else here? How could anyone want something to die
      <em class="calibre9">more</em> than someone else? Just how is that measured anyway?
      Say two people go at it with the killing curse and their spells hit
      at the exact same time. I'm pretty sure they'd both want to kill
      each other equally. Nether of them would want to die any less than
      the other. What then? Do they just both die?" <em class="calibre9">Or maybe one of
      them fears death more than the other so that would give them the
      upper hand. Did my mother fear death less than Voldemort? That
      didn't make any sense, he even let her start before he did.
      How</em> couldn't <em class="calibre9">she kill him off?</em> <em class="calibre9">Did her intent to
      kill fall short of his, even at the cost of her own son's
      life?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There has to be something more to it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry, Potter, but there really isn't," Quirrell didn't
      sound apologetic, at all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No! No! No way there is not! You're saying that Voldemort,"
      Harry didn't stuttered, half the class gasped in horror and the
      other half lips were too tightly pressed together to let out so
      much as a breath. A chill swept down Harry's spine, but he was too
      angry to notice it. "could go about killing whoever he pleased
      because he bloody wanted to and no one could stop him because they
      just didn't want him to die enough? He could just go around
      shouting</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Avada Kedavra wherever he damn well pleased and if you didn't
      move away fast enough you'd just die?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sense of doom spiked and continued to bear down on Harry at
      the mention of Voldemort's name. The Defense Professor hadn't moved
      yet the intensity of it felt as if he were inches from Harry, not
      several feet away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think," Professor Quirrell said softly. "that you ought to
      leave the room for a while." He pointed towards the door that Harry
      had entered after he'd learned to loose. "Leave your wand on the
      table outside."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That isn't an answer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Twenty points from Ravenclaw and a week's detention and if you
      don't move now it will be fifty."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry couldn't believe it. Quirrell was the most rational person
      Harry knew, why on earth was he suddenly acting like Snape? "For
      what?" Harry spat. "For asking a damn question?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For terrifying your classmates."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked and indeed people were watching him with mixed
      expressions of horror. In fact, the people who'd been practically
      crowding him had taken several steps away. It was only in their
      absence Harry saw that Hermione was among those who'd attempted the
      spell with Harry, and she was looking at him now with tear brimmed
      eyes, and it was that sight that had eased Harry's anger and
      nothing else.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Without another word, he turned from her and did as Professor
      Quirrell asked.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
