<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>14. Dark Lord Material - Dark Lord Material Chapter 3 Poking the fire, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="14. Dark Lord Material"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s3" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 3: Poking the fire</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">This is a spin off of Less Wrongs Harry Potter and the
      Methods of Rationality Fanfiction. All idea's and characters go to
      him and J.K. Rowling. I just couldn't resist jumping in on the
      fun.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">If you have not read Methods of Rationality, please stop
      what you are doing and read it NOW! It is awesomeness in a
      can.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">And now, please enjoy my fanfiction, of a
      fanfiction.</strong></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Chapter Three</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Poking the Fire</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">A horrible silence hung in the air, even after Harry had set his
      wand aside and shut himself in Professor Quirrell's backroom.
      Hermione was struggling with herself. Part of her felt so much
      sympathy for Harry that she was literally tearing up. It hadn't
      been right what the Defense Professor had done, Harry really hadn't
      done anything wrong and for Professor Quirrell to claim Harry
      deserved punishment for 'terrifying' his classmates was laughable.
      Since when did Professor Quirrell care so much about the student's
      mental wellbeing? Certainly not on the first day of class or any
      day since. He practically awarded points to the student who could
      be the most 'terrifying.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No, Harry had done something else that Professor Quirrell did
      not like, and she wanted to say as much. However, she was in a room
      full of people learning a spell that could potentially kill her,
      and Lucius Malfoy wanted her dead, or something horrible to happen
      to her anyway. Now would be an incredibly stupid time to challenge
      the Defense Professor, especially since he was already riled
      up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know," Hermione began, voice slightly trembling. "you are
      one of the most horrible people I have ever met." Ah, well, the hat
      <em class="calibre9">had</em> offered her Gryffendor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell turned to her, his mouth twitching in that
      evil smile of his. Whatever he'd been feeling before, he was
      nothing but amused at what Hermione had just said. She didn't know
      why that made her even angrier. She should be relieved that he was
      not asking her to stand in front of the class and have everyone
      practice Avada Kedavra on her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You think it <em class="calibre9">horrible</em> of me to send an angry student
      out of the room after he'd just mastered a lethal spell? Perhaps it
      would have been more prudent of me to let things escalate till
      someone ended up dead. Sorry, but I do not follow your logic, Miss
      Granger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You should not have punished him! He didn't do anything wrong!"
      Hermione yelled. She wanted to pose a more intelligent argument,
      but she wasn't Harry, she didn't talk like a textbook, she couldn't
      come up with counter arguments to soot her needs on a whim.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell arched a brow. "Are we still talking about
      Potter, Miss Granger?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's jaw tightened at that. Of course they were talking
      about Harry. This had nothing to do with what had happened to
      <em class="calibre9">her</em> a few days ago. "Your reason for punishing him is for
      'terrifying' us. If that were true, you would have taken points
      away the moment he cast the curse because <em class="calibre9">that</em> was what
      scared everyone. But you didn't. I don't think it was us that Harry
      had scared, Professor, but <em class="calibre9">you</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell laughed and Hermione knew she'd said
      something wrong and now he was going to make a joke of her and she
      had to think of something intelligent and accurate to say before he
      did.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," the Defense Professor said ending his throaty laugh quite
      abruptly. He turned to the rest of the class, who had been watching
      the exchange in a state of fixed horror, or maybe they were still
      perturbed at what Harry had just done. "Is there anyone here that
      does not feel threatened by Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No one said anything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't!" Hermione and Neville said at the same moment. He'd
      spoken softer than she had and she would not have heard him if he
      were not standing so close to her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Clearly the Defense Professor had not, for when he next spoke he
      only addressed Hermione. "That, Miss Granger, simply isn't true.
      You'd been just as frightened as everyone else. When Potter got
      angry you felt threatened and scared which is why you did not speak
      until he'd left the room."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't speak because I was angry!" Hermione burst out. "It
      wasn't Harry getting upset that had scared me! It was the fact that
      he killed something that had scared me and it would have scared me
      <em class="calibre9">more</em> if he had taken that in stride. The fact that Harry
      got upset made him <em class="calibre9">less</em> threatening. And you were being
      really insensitive and unfair and you still are and you don't care
      because you are a spider!" She stood there fuming for a few
      moments. It took a mental effort to keep from shouting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell simply watched her, a vexed expression on his
      face and it was another moment before he said. "Perhaps you ought
      to step out for a while as well, Miss Granger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was about to spin on her heel and storm out of the room when
      she realized something. She was angry, really angry. And part of
      her thought she was being stupid but…</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">It had worked for Harry.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She spun towards the rat, preformed the gestures perfectly, and
      in a voiced filled with rage shouted, "Avada Kedavra!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing happened. Not even the squirt of light Tracy had
      managed. It was so unfair! When Harry got angry he got to kill
      things, but when she did she just ended up looking like an
      idiot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright, you made your point. You can stay," Professor Quirrell
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione snarled. She would <em class="calibre9">not</em> take another minute of
      his mockery! This time she really did spin on her heel and storm
      out of the room, slamming the door shut behind her for good
      measure.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
