<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>14. Dark Lord Material - Dark Lord Material Chapter 6 Detention, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="14. Dark Lord Material"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s6" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 6: Detention</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Voldemort: "You think killing people would make them
      like you but it doesn't. It just makes people dead..."</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">A vary Potter Musical</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Again, this is a Fanfiction of a Fanfiction, all
      ideas/characters/whatever belongs to Less Wrong and Rowling,
      ultimately Rowling.</strong></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Chapter Six</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Detention</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">News of Harry Potter's success with the killing curse spread
      quickly throughout the school. At this point, Harry had learned to
      expect the student body of Hogwarts to know anything he did out of
      the ordinary the instant he pulled it off. Ah, the wonderful
      workings of time turners.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So it came as no surprise to him when he entered the great hall,
      moments after he'd left the Defense classroom, that almost every
      head in the room was turned towards him, and yet somehow no one had
      the courage to say anything. Harry pointedly ignored them and took
      a seat at the Ravenclaw table. At least he could count on no one
      wanting to talk to him. He <em class="calibre9">really</em> wasn't in the mood. He
      would have much preferred to sit in his trunk, eating meal bars and
      avoiding everyone, however, not showing his face after he'd
      mastered the most deadly spell in the world would have caused more
      damage to his reputation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just as soon as he sat down, Harry loaded his plate with
      anything that was in front of him and started eating. Any brave
      Ravenclaw would now know better than to strike up conversation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After he'd calmed down, Harry had wanted to speak with Professor
      Quirrell, but the Defense Professor hadn't given him the chance.
      The door to the little room at the back of the defense class had
      opened of its own accord, and the Professors voice drifted into the
      room, by use of the ventriloquist charm, to announce Harry's
      scheduled time of detention. Harry had enough time to catch the
      defense professor trudging out of the room, already in zombie mode.
      He had known better than to approach Professor Quirrell then.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The great hall broke into a whispering buzz when it became clear
      that Harry was <em class="calibre9">not</em> going to go off on a killing spree.
      However, those Ravenclaw's sitting closest to Harry did vacate
      their seats before they had quite finished eating.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Almost as soon as the Ravenclaws left, Hermione slipped in
      beside him. She drew out her wand and said, "<em class="calibre9">Quietus</em>." She
      then took the extra measure to lean in close to Harry and whisper.
      "Can you teach me the killing curse?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry paused in the act of raising his fork to his mouth. He
      slowly lowered it and turned to stare at Hermione. She looked
      completely serious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know this isn't the best time to ask, and I'm sorry for doing
      it now, but I <em class="calibre9">have</em> to learn that spell," Hermione
      whispered. There was a note of apology to her voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry set his fork down. "You know I am not authorized to do
      that," his voice was just as quite as hers. Hermione opened her
      mouth, but Harry talked right on over her. "No, even if I could, I
      don't have the time." It was true. With Professor Quirrell's added
      detentions to Harry's already packed to the brim schedule, he'd
      have to use his time turner just to eat. And even if he had the
      time, he wouldn't teach Hermione that spell. If she wanted to
      pursue it on her own, fine, but Harry wasn't going to help anyone
      learn <em class="calibre9">that</em> spell. It was <em class="calibre9">too</em> dangerous.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione closed her mouth, but she still bore a determined look
      and Harry knew this would not be the end of it. However, when she
      next spoke, her tone was surprisingly gentle. "I'm sorry about what
      Professor Quirrell did. That was wrong of him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry picked up his fork again, and resumed his meal.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">He spent the rest of that evening in his trunk, and the better
      part of Sunday as well. He studied and practiced spells, doing his
      best to distract himself from the little hole that was slowly
      widening in his heart. He called himself nine kinds of idiot, but
      it didn't help. The hole was still there, like a minor wound,
      constantly bleeding and not completely painless, and if he didn't
      do something it'd eventually bleed him dry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">I shouldn't have believed Professor McGonagall, not for a
      second. Of course she'd paint my parents out to be saints.</em> He
      should have known that they were weak, selfish, shallow people. He
      spent ten years of his life working up a horrible image of his
      genetic parents, not allowing himself to form any sort of
      attachment to them, so why did it bother Harry so much? They hadn't
      cared about Harry, not enough to kill Voldemort, even when he gave
      them a chance to. He must have seen them for what they were.
      Cowards only making play at being Heroes. Gryffindors…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When time came that evening for Professor Quirrell's detention,
      Harry was still upset, but did his best to keep his expression
      collected as he entered into the Defense classroom. He was taken by
      surprise at the sudden sense of doom. It bore down on Harry the
      moment his foot crossed over the threshold into the room, and for a
      panicked instant he considered turn tail and fleeing. But then he
      saw that Professor Quirrell was not at his desk, but in the back of
      the classroom where Harry usually sat, and realized the sense of
      doom might not have anything to do with Professor Quirrell's
      current mood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Please approach the stage, Mr. Potter," Professor Quirrell said
      softly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced at the Professor briefly before doing as
      instructed. He could not imagine what was held in store for him.
      Learning to loose had been an unpleasant experience, but a needed
      one, and it was nothing compared to their fieldtrip to Azkaban, and
      neither of those two events were the cause of a detention handed
      out by Professor Quirrell. This time, the Professor had something
      planned for the sole purpose of punishing Harry. He really should
      be more nervous, but his anger had still not quite cooled, so he
      met the Defense Professors eye with something of a defiant look.
      His inner Slytherin screamed at him for his lack of tact.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know why you are here?" Professor Quirrell asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For scaring people," Harry replied and some of his defiance
      left him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Professor Quirrell answered unexpectedly and then he took
      out his wand and preformed the spells necessary to ensure secrecy.
      When he had finished he drew his wand in a horizontal line and all
      around the dais appeared cages and cages of rats, oversize spiders,
      large spiked and oozing slugs, creatures of claws and teeth and not
      one of them looked very pleasant.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"These are a collection of pests that I have rounded up about
      the school. Rather than having the usual crew deal them, that duty
      has been passed on to you this evening." Professor Quirrell then
      pocketed his wand and five sheets of parchment appeared before him.
      His eyes scanned the sheets and he did not look or speak to Harry
      again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's mouth was parted slightly in shock. <em class="calibre9">This</em> was to
      be Harry's punishment for… for he didn't even know what.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor Quirrel," Harry said. "This seems a little
      excessive."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're in detention, Potter. Of course it's not supposed to be
      pleasant. Now get to work or I shall have to deduct house points,"
      the Defense Professor replied dryly, not taking his eyes from the
      parchment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hopelessly, Harry stared at the caged doomed creatures. He drew
      out his wand, managing to block off his confusion and now dull
      anger in preparation for the spell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre9">Avdakedavra,"</em> Harry said, and the over-sized spider
      sagged, its many legs curling in on itself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre9">Avdakedavra.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The horned slug splatted against the floor of the cage slime
      oozing over the edge and onto the dais.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre9">Avadakedavra</em>," and on it went. The creatures didn't
      have enough sense to be scared. Had no idea that as each one of
      their brethren died, it brought them one step closer to death.
      Despite Harry's efforts, he could not help but recall his parents
      last moments. <em class="calibre9">It's so easy!</em> Harry screamed inside, barely
      keeping that hot anger at bay.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd preformed the spell ten times with pauses before he had to
      take a break. He sat on one of the cages that now held a dead
      spider. His heart hammered in his chest and he felt a wild disgust
      with himself, but it was nothing compared to the hatred he bore
      towards the Defense Professor in this moment. This was cruel.
      Completely purposeless. He turned his head over his shoulder, but
      Professor Quirrell was still occupied with the grading of
      papers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Each time Harry preformed the spell, it became harder and harder
      to keep the anger and hurt off. The hole in his chest was widening
      and widening and more than just a small amount of blood was
      spilling from that wound now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre9">Avdakedavra."</em> It was so hard to keep the anger at bay.
      And a thought occurred to him. Why should he? The dark lord had
      surely been upset when he slaughtered the entire dojo. With the
      next spells casting, he let his anger boil over, let his rage fuel
      the spell, while still keeping his intent on killing the
      animal.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"AVADA KEDAVRA!" The spell left his wand, wild and sizzling with
      power, but was no less effective at taking the animals life. Yet,
      it had felt different. Harry performed the spell again, and it was
      not at all difficult to maintain his anger even as his inner
      Ravenclaw calculated the difference.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">It's slower, less precise.</em> Ravenclaw observed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry paused, breathing heavily. He tried to understand why the
      anger made a difference with the spell. He still wanted to kill the
      animal and it had still died.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">It's the emotion. It interferes with the spell.</em>
      Ravenclaw said and nodded to itself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And that was when Harry realized why Voldemort had been able to
      kill his mother, even when she had stared the spell before he did.
      It wasn't that she had not cared enough about Harry to perform the
      spell accurately. It was <em class="calibre9">because</em> she cared so much for him
      that Voldemort was able to kill her first and that was why he had
      laughed. She hadn't been thinking about just killing Voldemort. She
      had been thinking about him, Harry. Her fear and her rage slowed
      the spell and to Voldemort, a being completely devoid of emotion,
      could see straight through her weakness and exploit it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That must have been what Professor Quirrell was trying to teach
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I understand why I am here, Professor," Harry said quietly. He
      just barely kept his voice from trembling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The pests are still there," was all the defense professor
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked, now unsure what to think. With his heart in the
      pit of his stomach, Harry finished off the rest of the creatures.
      He had performed the killing curse more than thirty times during
      the detention, and as he killed off the last one he was beginning
      to feel exhausted. He turned to Professor Quirrell, and opened his
      mouth, but he spoke before Harry could.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The pests are still there," he said yet again. This time, he
      looked at Harry directly, parchment vanished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stared and when he caught Professor Quirrell's meaning,
      another wave of disgust ran through him. He now had no idea what
      the Defense Professor was trying to teach him, if anything at
      all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry reached into his pouch. "Bottle of gasoline," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The cages tops opened with an easy <em class="calibre9">Alohomora</em>. He used
      the hover charm to stack the bodies together in another cage. The
      gasoline was divided sparsely, but it still wasn't enough to burn
      every single creature. He set fire to the ones he could, placing a
      bubble head charm over himself to keep the smell off. He <em class="calibre9">Finite
      Incantatemed</em> the smoke and drifting sparks as a prevention to
      letting the fire get out of control. When he had finished, there
      were still about twenty creatures left in their cages. He was
      having trouble just staying on his feet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He wished he could just vanish them with a snap of his fingers
      like Professor Quirrell. Instead, he piled the bodies up again, and
      this time used an alarming amount of parchment from his pouch,
      broke three desks, and used the material to fuel a fire hot enough
      to burn the rest of the corpses.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At the end of it, there were several chard cages and spots of
      blackened wood along the dais. Harry had let the fire burn itself
      out. He stumbled to the edge of the stage, and sat down. He glared
      up at the Professor, his tired mind too slow to even begin to
      wonder at the purpose of all this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was… an interesting performance, Mr. Potter," Professor
      Quirrell finally said after several quite moments.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you going to tell me what the point of all this was?" Harry
      asked, not bothering to mask his anger or his disgust.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell arched a brow. "I thought you said you
      knew."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought I did," Harry replied harshly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why is it that you think you are here?" Professor Quirrell
      asked. He leaned forward, resting his chin on his palm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To slaughter and burn over thirty creatures apparently," Harry
      replied coldly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I never asked you to do those things," Professor Quirrell said,
      the beginnings of that all too familiar smile quirking at the end
      of his lips.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Despite his exhaustion, Harry threw himself from the dais onto
      the floor. "You told me to kill them and get rid of the bodies!" he
      shouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That smile broke into an all-out grin and a laugh full of mirth
      escaped the Professor. It was several moments before he managed to
      control himself enough to speak, and at which point Harry
      desperately wanted out of the room. He was beginning to realize
      there was something really wrong with Professor Quirrell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, Potter. I did not tell you to kill and burn forty two
      pests. I told you to deal with them. You could have simply brought
      them to the edge of the forest and let them go. That, by far, would
      have required less effort than slaughtering and burning them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's mouth fell open, completely flabbergasted. And after a
      full two minutes he said, "Well, you certainly didn't do anything
      to stop me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Professor Quirrell agreed. "I didn't. But perhaps now you
      understand why you are here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked over his shoulder at the ash covered stage, his
      expression grim. "To realize there is something really wrong with
      me…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wonder," Professor Quirrell said, tapping his cheek. "How
      many other people would have considered doing this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry swallowed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">Just one.</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Truemy the Wise: "Gaa arg nooooo!"</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">*box tumbles off shelf and CRACKS open*</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Truemy the Wise: "The CRACK is unleashed!"</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">*WARNING* WARNING* WARNING*</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">READ AHEAD AT YOUR OWN RISK. THIS IS CRACK. I REPEAT.
      THIS IS CRACK!</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort: "You know Quirrell and I always say you gotta hit
      yourself where it hurts, wait, ah, that's not it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrel: " No, no, no, sit down or you're gonna hurt yourself.
      It's, 'you gotta hit them where it hurts.' Look, kid, people do
      horrible things to you and there's nothing you can do about it,
      right?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Haryr: "Right."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrel: "Wrong! When people do mean things to you, you turn
      around and hit them tenfold!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry: "That's not what I was taught."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrel "Than maybe you need a new lesson. Repeat after me.
      'Avada Kedavra'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry: "What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort: "A-va-da Ke-da-vra. It means no worries."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrel: "Avada Kedavra! What a wonderful phrase."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort: "Avada Kedavra! Ain't no passing craze."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrel/Voldemort "It means no worries for the rest of your
      days. It's our problem-free philosophy, Avada Kedavra!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry: "Avada Kedavra?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort: "Yeah. It's our motto!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry: "that's your motto?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell: "Yeah. What's the-motto with you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort: "Ya know, kid, these two words will solve all your
      problems."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell: "That's right. Take Tom for example. Why, when he was
      a young wizard..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort: "When I was a young WIZARD!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell: "Very nice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort: "Thanks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell: "He found some father lacked a certain appeal</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So he cleared the table after the meal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort: "They were sensitive souls and hard to send.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It hurt, but every life must come to an end!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort Quirrell</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And oh, the shame He was ashamed</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So I got to changin' my name Really what name?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And people got downhearted Who cares how they feel?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everytime that I...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell: "Hey! Tom! Not in front of the kids!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort: "Right. Sorry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell/Voldemort</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Avada Kedavra! What a wonderful phrase</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Avada Kedavra! Ain't no passing craze</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry: "It means no worries for the rest of your days!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell: "Yeah, sing it, kid!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry/Quirrell</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's our problem-free"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort: "philosophy"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry/Quirrell/Voldemort</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Avada Kedavra!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Avada Kedavra! Avada Kedavra!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Avada Kedavra! Avada Kedavra!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Avada Kedavra! Avada Kedavra!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Avada Kedavra! Avata-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It means no worries for the rest of your days</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It's our problem-free philosophy</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Avada Kedavra!</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">(Repeats)</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">I say "Avada"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I say "Kedavra"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7"><em class="calibre9">Note: This sillyness was written prior to watching a
      certain awesome video. Check it out at New Grounds "avada
      kedavra"</em></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7"><em class="calibre9">Thank you, Peer Infinity, for the
      link.</em></strong></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
