<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>14. Dark Lord Material - Dark Lord Material Chapter 9  Repercussions, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="14. Dark Lord Material"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s9" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 9: Repercussions</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Thank you, Anon, I've corrected the typo's you pointed
      out. Will try and do better in the future. ^^</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Also, REVIEWBOX would like to thank every one of you so
      much for your messages. She's going to pull through and make a full
      recovery. Luckily, she was not left untreated for long so there was
      only some minor tissue lose, and most of if was body
      fat.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">And now please enjoy this fanfiction of a fanfiction.
      :)</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">All ideas/characters/whatever go to Less Wrong and J.K
      Rowling.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">ps</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">sorry about the double postage, it was an
      accident.</strong></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Chapter Nine</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Repercussions</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry said for the umpteenth time. He and Hermione were
      coming out of the Greenhouse ahead of most of the students. It had
      taken Professor Spout about ten seconds to see Hermione's cast
      '<em class="calibre9">Quietus</em>' charm and broke it before Harry had gotten two
      words in, which was just as well. She deducted another twenty
      points from Ravenclaw and gave Hermione a note to give to Professor
      Flitwick, probably containing detention times.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, you don't understand," Hermione persisted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, Hermione, you don't!" Harry snapped, finally losing
      patience completely. "If you really want to kill someone, take a
      knife and stab them, or set them on fire or something, there are
      plenty of ways to kill people other than Avada Kedavra."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, Harry, I know this is a sensitive topic for you—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's anger flared. <em class="calibre9">Sensitive topic?</em> Since when was
      killing someone considered a normal day to day conversation?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you should know," she continued. "That I would not ask you
      if it wasn't important. Harry, you can't always protect me and I
      need an edge. I mean, everyone knows I can't do the Patronus charm
      and if I fail at this to-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione," Harry said with a slight groan. "the killing curse
      isn't some clever spell that teachers will give you high marks for
      knowing or students would admire you for. Would you admire someone
      who knew every weak point in your body, capable of killing you in
      an instant? Do you admire idiots who carry guns? No, just because
      you know you can kill someone doesn't mean people will look up to
      you for it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't care if people look up to me, Harry, I want people to
      fear me!" it was the last thing Harry would ever suspect to come
      out of Hermione Grangers mouth. After a brief pause, Hermione
      seemed to register what she had just said and some familiar
      uncertainty returned to her. "I mean, that came out wrong. I'm
      sorry, Harry. It's just, Harry, I need to be able to defend myself
      and when the bullies hear I can't do Avada Kedavra they'll, they'll
      and oh, it's not just them." She bent in closer to Harry and
      whispered, "It's Lucius, I'm pretty sure he's here to kill me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Harry hissed, though he didn't automatically put off the
      notion. "Hermione, do you know how much trouble he'd land in if he
      even attempted to kill a twelve year old witch?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course he's not going to go out in the open about it,"
      Hermione hissed back. "But if people knew I could do the killing
      curse they'd at least be a little weary to try and start something
      with me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At this point, Harry took Hermione by the hand and steered them
      towards the lake. They'd been walking a good distance ahead of
      everyone else so the entire body of first year Ravenclaws and
      Slytherins saw the pair of them veer off. Harry looked over his
      shoulder and noticed Draco looking his way, but there was too much
      distance between them to catch his facial expression. He'd have to
      deal with that latter… eventually… possibly never.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione," Harry said, once they'd lost sight of everyone. "I
      understand your reason for concern, and it is a really good reason,
      but I think you'd have better luck learning the Patronus
      charm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Patronus charm won't help me against people, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's more powerful than you think," Harry said. "At least when
      learned properly, and I really believe you can learn it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They both came to a stop at the edge of the lake. Hermione
      looked out over the water, a breeze rustling her busy hair. "Are
      you going to tell me <em class="calibre9">now</em> how to cast it?" she asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've already helped you as much as I can. It's something you
      have to figure out on your own," Harry replied, watching her. He
      <em class="calibre9">really</em> wished he could tell her more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her brows drew together. "And I suppose the killing curse is
      also <em class="calibre9">something I need to figure out on my own?</em>" There was
      more than just a hint of sarcasm to her words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry sighed, and, despite his earlier refusals, he gave
      in and explained, "all you need to perform that spell is to really
      want to kill something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione turned to look at Harry. "That's it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "And if you really had it in you to kill someone,
      Hermione, you wouldn't need to ask me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see," Hermione said after a pause. She looked back over the
      lake and let out a breath. "I guess I should go see Flitwick now."
      She turned to go.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione," Harry said. She stopped but didn't turn around.
      "Don't do anything to interfere with Professor Quirrell's
      detentions. You know he doesn't hand out punishment lightly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you know why you are being punished?" Hermione asked. All
      Harry could make out was the back of her bushy head. He offered no
      reply and she said nothing more.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">It was hard for a man that hardly came up to your chin to be
      intimidating, but, somehow, Flitwick managed it. He scrutinized the
      dirt splotched note Hermione had handed him, lips pressed so
      tightly together he seemed not to have any at all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Miss, Granger," he said in a trilled whisper. "Is this true?
      Did you, my young, <em class="calibre9">Ravenclaw</em> student disrupt a class in
      session?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, no," Hermione replied, not completely defeated. <em class="calibre9">I cast
      the</em> Quietus <em class="calibre9">charm. It would have been a</em> little
      <em class="calibre9">more disrupting if I had not.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you, or did you not attempt to distract a student in the
      middle of a lesson?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I just wanted to ask Harry a quick question-" Hermione said
      with not an ounce of respect she would have usually shown the
      Charms Professor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Miss Granger," Flitwick interrupted with a sigh, letting the
      hand holding the note fall. "You know better than this. I'm not
      going to punish you," he said quickly as Hermione's expression
      began to change. "You have enough detentions to be getting along
      with, and you've already lost forty points to Ravenclaw. I can see
      that you do not think very highly of your teachers right now, but
      please consider that we do have your best interests at heart.
      Please try and keep out of trouble?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She left the charms classroom not quite keeping her anger as
      effectively as she was accustomed to these days. Professor Flitwick
      disheartened voice and pleading words almost convinced her not to
      go through with her plan… almost.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Classes had just ended for Monday, and Harry was more than ready
      for his four-poster bed, unfortunately he had another detention
      that evening, not to mention dueling lessons with Neville. He also
      wanted to meet with the Chaos legion and Draco, he'd probably end
      up doing one or the other. At the moment, Draco was more pressing
      so that took precedence over tactics for the next battle, whenever
      that might be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He decided to skip dinner and sleep for an hour before
      detention, which hopefully this evening would last only an hour.
      He'd just veered off from the rest of his fellow Ravenclaws,
      thoughts occupied with how he was supposed to find evidence on a
      murder that took place more than ten years ago, when Hermione came
      chasing after him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry! Harry!" she shouted, pushing her way through the gaggle
      of first years.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He kept walking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">Excellent, keep this attitude up and Professor Quirrell is
      sure to let you out early.</em> Sytherin sneered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry," Hermione said, coming to walk beside him. "I thought
      about what you said, and I realized that you were right."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry, mouth half open, about to let loose a few well-crafted
      words, instead let it drop a few inches. <em class="calibre9">Hermione</em> admitted
      he was right about something? He closed it, and let out a sigh
      instead. "That's great, Hermione."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Maybe, if he'd been more awake, he would have been at least a
      little suspicious. As it was, Harry wasn't completely sure which
      conversation she was referring to, nor did he much care. He
      continued up the marble stairs, hoping she'd go away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, I really got to thinking about the Patronus charm and you
      know what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Harry asked in far from enthusiastic tones.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," Hermione said looking over her shoulder. She watched the
      last of the first years round the corridor before going on. "I did
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stopped in his tracks. "What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione smiled and grabbed his hand. "Get out your cloak and
      I'll show you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Numbly, Harry reached into his pouch and pulled out his cloak.
      Something wasn't right, but that could be blamed on the surreal
      feeling you get when you lose enough sleep. Just as Hermione snatch
      the cloak and began stuffing it into her own pouch, Harry wondered
      stupidly why she would need an invisibility cloak to cast the
      Patronus charm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come on!" she said, taking him by the hand. She practically
      yanked him up the last few steps and continued to drag him around
      till they reached an unused classroom. He might have been angry at
      the treatment, but he was in too much of a state of shock to care.
      He <em class="calibre9">did</em> understand her enthusiasm though, so he let the
      groaning of his arm suffer in silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She glanced self-consciously about the room, eyes darting to the
      empty desks and chairs. She flashed Harry a nervous smile before
      breaking into the gestures for the Patronus charm, but when it came
      time to expel the words she spun to Harry and said,
      "<em class="calibre9">Somnium</em>!"</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
