<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival - Revival Chapter 14 Interlude, Draco, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s14" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 14: Interlude</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">3:53 pm, June 24th, 1993</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Short Interlude, Draco Malfoy</p>

      <p class="calibre6">Draco watched as the dark-haired man sitting on the other couch
      drank down a bottle of Invigoration Draught. Draco wasn't quite
      sure what he was supposed to feel toward Severus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Severus Snape that Draco knew didn't seem like a man that
      Father would be close to. All Father's close friends such as Mr.
      Macnair and Mr. Avery that Draco knew of were cunning and decent
      purebloods who could never stand a stain on their exquisite robes.
      Severus was cunning and powerful for sure, but he was a half-blood,
      his mother was a laughstock among purebloods, and he himself didn't
      respect any social etiquette, either - he didn't even clean his
      hair and robes properly. However, Father and Severus were indeed
      allies for many years, maybe it was because they both spoke
      Parseltongue so that they couldn't tell direct lies to each
      other.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then, Severus REVIVED Father. Even in the tragic plays,
      people tried to resurrect lost lovers, not dead allies or friends.
      Draco could hardly describe his gratitude and shock toward Severus'
      great deed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Today, Father told Draco that he suspected Severus was
      emotionally hungry, so if you treated him with true friendship and
      goodwill, that man would return your favor hundreds folds. Father
      had recognized life debts owned by House Malfoy toward Severus, and
      proclaimed Severus as his brother in all but blood. Draco was told
      that he should treat Severus so. Draco had no problem recognizing
      the life debts, but to treat the unkempt potioneer as a real uncle,
      that would still take some adjustment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Father also told Draco that he had invited Severus to be
      his godfather. Draco was so astonished that he almost checked if
      Father was an imposter. Draco knew Father really believed in
      pureblood supremacy. How could Father possibly invited a half-blood
      to be a Malfoy godfather? Father quickly assured Draco that since
      he was going to reach his magical majority within the next week,
      Severus wouldn't have any legal power over Draco, but Severus would
      protect Draco with his life anyway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">OK, that is definitely Father.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">And there came this man sitting in front of Draco, freely
      offering information that would help Draco redeem Slytherin, even
      the lot that Draco had deemed as hopeless. "Miss Parkinson might
      not be sharp, nor kind, but the Parkinsons have a reputation to be
      obedient to their head of house. A young Mr. Parkinson will enter
      Hogwarts this September. I have seen the boy once or twice, he
      might not be beyond redemption. Miss Parkinson would probably
      follow the next Head of Parkinson House's suit with some nudge in
      the right direction."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco duly nodded, and listed the young Mr. Parkinson as one of
      the persons he needed to talk to in the beginning of next
      semester.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Maybe Draco had spent too much time with Harry and Hermione, he
      started to feel that the way Father tried to use Severus wasn't
      really fair for the black-haired man. If he were to become Draco's
      godfather, Draco needed to treat him fairly, and it was not exactly
      the way that Father considered fair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">OK, Severus is keen on redeeming Slytherin as well, so
      maybe I should work our relationships up from here. And I do need
      to send him better robes, toothpaste, and shampoos. Hopefully,
      Severus won't murder his new godson for sending him shampoo, will
      he?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just as Draco was pondering if he could cut down cost somewhere
      so that he could buy Severus a house elf that was ridiculously
      expensive these days, the door of the suitcase opened, and Harry
      stepped out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus quickly stood up from his couch, and glanced at Father
      on the bottom of the suitcase. Draco also stood up, and Father
      seemed to be OK.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus then turned to Harry. "Mr. Potter, I need to talk to you
      in private as well. And in the meanwhile, I wonder if Narcissa
      could be here. She is a strong witch who is good at healing
      spells."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco looked at Harry expectantly, and some warmth toward
      Severus also rose from heart. Draco knew the time that his whole
      family were allowed to be together was quite limited, but he'd
      better not offend Harry by nagging. And Severus had just asked a
      difficult question that Draco wasn't sure how to ask.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus' request seemed to surprise Harry a bit, but the
      Boy-Who-Lived soon agreed to let Mother come here as well.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
