<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival - Revival Chapter 17 Tests, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s17" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 17: Tests</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">5:32 pm, June 24th, 1993</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry watched as Severus reapplied the charm that banned anyone
      from coming into the room, contemplating the tests yet to run.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the meanwhile, Hermione seemed to be a little unsure about
      how to face the man who had humiliated her horribly in public,
      according to some grand plan designed by Dumbledore; yet helped her
      SPHEW cause secretly without anyone knowing about it. "Good
      afternoon, Professor Snape. How was your trip?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus finished casting the spells, and turned around to face
      Harry and Hermione. "Miss Granger, my trip entailed a long story
      that Mr. Potter may prefer to explain to you in private. Before I
      leave you two for your discussion, I need to say that with Albus'
      order or not, I have not treated you fairly, and my actions have
      caused you great distress. One year ago, in my haste to pursue
      power beyond my own limit, I have neglected to apologize to you. I
      apologize to you now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To be honest, Harry didn't quite expect that from the ex-Potions
      master.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">- <em class="calibre8">Is Severus doing this because he had become a better man?
      Or, is it because the man is ready to serve a benign Light Lord, so
      that he wants to repair his relationships with the Lord's most
      trusted advisor?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hufflepuff preferred the first reason, while Slytherin argued
      that since Severus was a true Slytherin, it was probably the more
      cynical answer. Either way, this seemed to be a good thing if Harry
      needed Severus for his plots later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Needless to say, Hermione stared at Severus in open shock. When
      she managed to speak, her voice was a little flustered. "I mean,
      err, Harry has told that you were the one who put notes under my
      pillow to help me fight bullies. I actually need to thank you for
      that. And, well, as for the other parts, I guess it's alright now
      since we all know why it happened."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus nodded, and pulled out a black suitcase from his pouch.
      "I will enter this suitcase and seal myself in it. Notify me when I
      am needed. <em class="calibre8">I sspoke truth.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus smirked upon Hermione's gasp.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before Severus put the black suitcase beside the grey one, Harry
      gave Hermione an explain-to-you-later look, and said, "Professor
      Snape, could you show your patronus to Hermione and me? Maybe we
      will be able to see something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus' eyes flickered, then pulled out his wand. "Expecto
      Patronum."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A basketball-sized bright white ball jumped out of Severus' wand
      point. It was not nearly as bright as Harry's or Hermione's, but it
      is way brighter than a regular animal patronus. The white ball went
      in front of Hermione, and said in the ex-Potions master's smooth
      voice, "The sky is blue."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stared at Severus' patronus, then eyed Harry with a
      disapproving look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus then offered, "The memory I need to use to fuel this
      patronus is quite peculiar. The first time I managed it, some of
      the memories couldn't even be counted as happy ones for most
      people. I needed to remember Draco's crying face, and my nausea
      upon seeing - Well, later I somehow have to include my grief upon
      hearing the deaths of people I cared about to use the charm. This
      is strange indeed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knew the reason, but he wasn't sure that he should tell
      Severus now. It was because Severus refused to accept the deaths of
      the ones he cared, and he wanted them to be alive. Severus needed
      to go one step higher, to want everyone to live forever and to
      absolutely refuse death to use the true patronus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Anyway, Severus had passed one of Harry's tests.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione looked at Severus with some admiration, then said.
      "Professor Snape, I think I know why, but I am not sure I can tell
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Potter said so as well, it seems I need to entangle this
      riddle myself." Severus' eyes centered on Hermione's sparkling
      fingernails. "I suppose I know some of the reasons that you could
      destroy several hundred dementors now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus suddenly frowned, and his face became as white as
      plaster. "I don't know any magic that can end the unicorn power
      inside you, but I can't say such thing is impossible. Miss Granger,
      please be very careful not to lose it, otherwise the world will be
      in grave danger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione nodded in confusion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was a bit confused as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Ending the power of unicorn that gives Hermione tremendous
      life power would definitely be bad, but how can that lead to world
      destruction?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I guess I need to be specific. There is some potion lore
      about the origin of Felix Felicis, the Liquid Luck potion. It is
      said that the reason that unicorn blood can sustain life for a
      while is that it is the strongest Felix Felicis, it will grant you
      so much luck that your body will heal itself against all odds and
      possibilities. But afterwards, the universe will work against you.
      From the Dark Lord's experience, I guess people cannot escape this
      side effect even if one changes into a new body." Severus said
      gravely. "And I would not suggest either of you take Felix Felicis
      unless absolutely necessary. Generations of potioneers had improved
      the potion to minimize the side effects, but I am not sure what the
      effect would be on Miss Granger. And in general, relying too much
      on Felix Felicis invariably leads to disastrous results."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now Harry began to understand why most dying people didn't drink
      unicorn blood, and why people said anyone who drank the blood could
      only live "a cursed life, a half life". Unicorn blood and the
      Liquid Luck potion seemed to have some unexplained results on which
      timeline the Universe chose amongst all the possible timelines, but
      the Universe fought back hard. In a word, after drinking unicorn
      blood, if you wanted heads in a gamble of flipping coins, you would
      get all heads; but afterward, it would be all tails.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had wondered how he came out to defeat Lord Voldemort
      against all odds, and why the smart enemy suddenly fell into the
      literary trap of a stupid talking villain, now Harry saw it. The
      Universe was working against Voldemort. Voldemort might have
      thought changing into a new body would end the side effect, but
      obviously it was not the case.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry imagined what he would do on the verge of death before he
      knew the ritual and the power of the Stone, and shuddered. Harry
      would do exactly the same thing Voldemort did, drank unicorn blood,
      and the world would be destroyed in any of the previous
      world-ending incidences. On the other hand, the reason that the
      world had not ended in the previous incidences, might exactly be
      that Hermione, who was blessed with all the luck of the Universe
      for the time being, was standing beside Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus pondered, sighed, and retrieved two bottles of golden
      liquid from his pouch. "I brewed these Felix Felicis myself, much
      better than the things you can buy in the market. The side effect
      is minimized to the best of my abilities. If you two absolutely
      need luck, use these. I will give Draco one bottle and give him the
      same instructions as well. <em class="calibre8">I sspoke truth. Potionss were for
      m-mysself, no trick.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Upon hearing the "<em class="calibre8">no trick</em>" statement, Harry knew
      Severus had realized he was being tested, but tests still needed to
      be run.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Harry and Hermione each took a bottle of Liquid Luck from
      Severus, Harry said, "Professor Snape, thank you so much for your
      advice and the potion. Do you know any other side effects of
      anything else?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For trolls, I only know that they are really stupid and
      violent, much easier to deal with than the side effects of unicorn
      blood." Severus then hesitated a little, and hissed.
      "<em class="calibre8">Hor-horcruxess ssaid to be ominouss for ov… offsssp-ringss, or
      kids born with b-bad luck, not ssure if true.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't dare to look at Hermione. He didn't trust his
      occlumency barrier could hide the horror and the guilt in him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">No, no, no!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">As of the past several months, Harry began to have some romantic
      thoughts on Hermione. But if what Severus heard was true, Hermione
      should never have kids, and the birth of her child - THEIR child -
      might tilt the world towards destruction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">I do not know anyone elsse … m-made hor-horcruxess for
      another, v-while other not know-v-wing, though.</em>" Severus
      hissed more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was a little bit assured, but the stone on his heart was
      still quite heavy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">OK, one reason NOT to make horcruxes for everyone with
      sacrifices of blank-brained clones. And this explains why dark
      wizards like Lucius may choose not to make horcruxes. A calculated
      cold-blooded murderer as Lucius is, he probably loves Draco more
      than his own life. As for Voldemort, kids are definitely not one of
      his concerns, or he simply didn't believe legends not to his taste.
      Or, maybe people fabricated this lore so that dark wizards like
      Lucius would not make horcruxes and live forever.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus stopped, then his hisses somehow became more grave.
      "<em class="calibre8">I do not know effectss of v-unicorn blood on ts-childbirth,
      either.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione saw Harry's blank face upon hearing the hisses, and
      asked carefully. "Am I to know?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus and Harry looked at each other. Harry's voice wavered a
      bit as he answered. "I need to think about it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"OK." Hermione accepted without hesitation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's heart sank further.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">It may not even be true. Just run your next test.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor Snape, thank you so much. I will talk with Hermione
      for a while, and I will call you by patronus afterwards." Harry
      said politely, and Severus descended down his black suitcase.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After the door of the suitcase was closed, Hermione started to
      cast privacy spells, and then asked. "Harry, what is all that
      about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm, let's wait for a while to let Professor Snape finish his
      spells inside his suitcase, and let me finish mine." Ten spells
      later, Harry moved towards his couch. "In the meanwhile, did you
      bring the books I asked for?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione drew out several huge books, including
      <em class="calibre8">Comprehensive Wizarding Genealogy</em>, <em class="calibre8">Pure-Blood
      Directory</em>, and <em class="calibre8">Distinguished Surnames in History</em>, and
      put them onto the table in front of Harry's couch. "Why do need
      <em class="calibre8">those</em> books?" Hermione asked with a tone of suspicion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just checking." Harry started to flip through the pages, and
      easily found Salazar Slytherin's name from <em class="calibre8">Comprehensive
      Wizarding Genealogy</em>. He saw, as sort of expected, one of
      Salazar's granddaughters married Armand Malfoy's son, Draco Malfoy
      I. And about fifty years later, a Malfoy girl descended from the
      first Draco got married with an wizard named "Arthur the Weasel",
      who was the founder of the Weasley family. Harry knew he could stop
      looking there, because there were so many Weasleys in wizarding
      Britain that they were virtually related to every family.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Well, it seems most wizards in Britain are descendants of
      Salazar Slytherin anyway. This makes a lot of sense for a small
      society like this, that everyone is basically related to everyone.
      I am a third cousin of Narcissa and Bellatrix; and there was a
      famous potioneer with the lastname of Dagworth-Granger in the
      seventeenth or eighteenth century, Hermione might be related to
      him. Maybe it was only the Gaunt family that kept inbreeding, so
      only all the Gaunts were known to speak Parseltongue, and Salazar's
      magic was just thinned out in other families. The same way as
      veela-human hybrids do. The half-veelas look more veela than human,
      but quarter-veelas look more human, and so on. And Professor
      Flitwick, who has distant goblin ancestry, is mostly human except
      his height and squeaky voice. This also explains why Lucius can
      speak much better Parseltongue than Severus. Too bad that not every
      wizard in the world is a descendant of Salazar.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-And that, is probably why Salazar's monster is said to be
      able to rid muggleborns from Hogwarts, since the muggleborns
      probably can't learn Parseltongue, therefore can't be taught by the
      most knowledgeable teacher in Hogwarts.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you checking?" Hermione read <em class="calibre8">Comprehensive
      Wizarding Genealogy</em> upside-down, and formed a quick guess.
      "You thought Professor Snape is an heir of Slytherin?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, virtually most wizards in Britain are, and a lot more in
      Europe and the western world, I guess." Harry quickly flipped
      through the long list of names of the Weasley family, and pointed
      to the beginning, "See, the founder of the Weasley family got
      married with one of Salazar's great-great granddaughters, so it is
      easy to guess from there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then why there aren't that many known Parselmouths?" Hermione
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I guess it may take quite some learning for most wizards,
      except the extreme inbreeding Gaunt family. Professor Snape said
      Professor Dumbledore can speak it as well. I have always wondered
      why Dumbledore trusted Severus Snape, it all makes sense now."
      Harry answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"OK, should I learn Parseltongue, then?" Hermione quickly asked,
      eagerness in her eyes. "Or perhaps I am not a descendent of
      Slytherin. I guess maybe Draco should as well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can learn if you want to, we just need to dig your family
      history a bit. And I think Draco will learn it from his new
      godfather and others anyway." Harry said to his wide-eyed friend.
      "Yeah, as you may have guessed, Professor Snape is going to be
      Draco's godfather, and would you be one of the witnesses for the
      legal process?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione nodded, confusion in her eyes. "Of course. But why
      didn't they do it one year ago, after, you know?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that's quite related to what I am about to tell you."
      Harry sat down on his couch. "Before that, I just have one more
      test to run. Hermione, could you use your patronus to find the Dark
      Lord, and, say, Nott Sr., then Bellatrix Black, and tell them the
      good news that when we bring them back, we will make them better
      people."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione looked at Harry with suspicion. "You know the Dark Lord
      is transfigured, and Nott Sr. is dead, right? But anyway, Expecto
      Patronum."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's bright patronus in the form of a girl jumped out from
      her wand point. The girl first stood there, looking really
      confused, then only looked sadly at Hermione, and finally, the
      patronus wandered around the room aimlessly as if not knowing where
      to go.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"OK, exactly the same result as I got a moment ago." Harry had
      an impulse to reach for his Comed-Tea, and suppressed it. "Before I
      can tell you what all this means, there's something I need to tell
      you, so that I can finish the story without giggling or laughing
      until you knock me down and bring me to St. Mungo's."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione composed herself. "Say it, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor Snape is a bat animagus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Both Harry and Hermione fell into hysterical laughter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, no, Harry, I - I am such a terrible person." Hermione
      giggled helplessly, and wiped her tears, "I shouldn't have laughed
      at him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was wiping laughing tears as well, but some of the tears
      may have come from another source.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">The Next Chapter will be uploaded at 6 pm (EDT),
      04/13/2015</strong></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
