<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival - Revival Chapter 18 Answers, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s18" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 18: Answers</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">5:57 pm, June 24th, 1993</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Third Private Meeting, Hermione, Answers</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After Hermione's laughter finally dwindled down to giggles,
      Harry wiped his eyes dry, "Five days ago, Professor Snape revived
      Lucius Malfoy using the same ritual the Dark Lord used to revive
      you. Or, at least, both Severus Snape and Lucius Malfoy seriously
      believe this narrative, as verified by Parseltongue. I've got one
      more test that we can run a few hours later, but my current test
      results seemed to confirm at least part of the story."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione gaped at Harry's statement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry went on to recount the story Severus told him about that
      night, Severus' theory on revival, and about the revival of Lucius.
      After finishing the story, Harry began to explain the tests he did.
      "First, I asked Professor Snape to show his patronus. Since you
      were able to resist the Dark Lord's temptations, I thought you
      would be a good observer for this test. It seems that Professor
      Snape knows part of the secrets in the true patronus charm, mostly
      the part pointed out by Voldemort plus some of his own deductions.
      Secondly, I asked him if he knew anything else that could go wrong.
      It appears that Professor Snape knows that your ability to heal
      came from an unicorn and a troll. The unicorn part is pretty
      obvious just from your look, but not the troll part. The knowledge
      about the troll and the true patronus can't come from Lucius, who
      only came to the graveyard later."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">And Severus knows about the horcrux as well.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So there is a high probability that Professor Snape was indeed
      there, observing the whole scene, though the Time barrier set up by
      the Dark Lord, or something else, prevented him from coming near or
      doing anything. And later that night, when he had every opportunity
      to take the true Stone and run away, he returned everything to me,
      and only took the duplicates of the Stone and the instruction
      manual." Harry showed Hermione the dull-looking red glass. "We can
      test to see if this duplicate can indeed extend transfiguration on
      a small item longer for a limited time in a few hours, but I guess
      we already got some conclusions. Correct me if I made any mistakes
      in my reasoning, I think we proved that Professor Snape did observe
      the scene, and though he is maybe a little bit shrewd, he is a good
      person deep down, or, at least he is someone who can resist great
      temptation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione thought for a while, and nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And about the test I let you run with your patronus, well, I
      have tested all the supposedly dead Death Eaters a few days after
      that night, just to check if they are really dead. It appeared that
      the transfigured Dark Lord confused my patronus; the dead ones made
      the patronus looked sad; and Bellatrix, who was on the run and
      might have some anti-patronus charm on herself, made my patronus
      wandered around aimlessly. One year ago, Lucius appeared to be
      dead-dead instead of transfigured-horcrux-dead to my patronus, or
      so it seemed at that time. I am sure Moody used other methods to
      check on his own as well. Therefore, Lucius was quite likely to be
      dead one year ago, or until Moody last checked." Harry reasoned.
      "Now, it is possible that Professor Snape figured out how to revive
      someone with well-preserved heads from the Dark Lord's instruction
      manual, and from the things he heard. Since he only had an inferior
      duplicate Stone, he couldn't stabilize Lucius' form, so they had to
      come to us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione blinked, and asked, "Or?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or, Lucius had an improved version of horcrux or something
      alike, and Professor Snape revived him from there. These two
      modified each other's memories afterwards, or they had someone else
      do it, so both of them could truly believe what they said in
      Parseltongue." Harry said slowly, "But I don't really see the point
      for Professor Snape to lie about the revival process. I can go and
      ask Professor Snape to revive another Death Eater that he said he
      preserved, and verify if he could do it. Moody can check the altar
      Professor Snape used and everything related. So that's one of the
      reasons why I chose to believe Professor Snape."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's inner critic timely offered, <em class="calibre8">it is also because we
      want to revive mother and father and everyone else, therefore we
      wanted to believe him. For what was worse, we even wanted to
      believe his hair theory, which was obviously ridiculous. We should
      be sentenced in Rationality Prison for eternity for wanting to
      believe something like that after all this time.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione pondered the question for a while. "Well, I can't offer
      any good reason for Professor Snape to lie about the revival,
      either. I am sure Moody can propose some ideas. And you talked with
      Lucius Malfoy as well?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Yes, the whole conversation between Lucius and I
      was in Parseltongue. And here is the strange thing, Lucius Malfoy
      practically told me that memory charms could fool Parseltongue, but
      the effects of memory charms might be different from real events.
      Lucius told me that his first possible kill was when his tutor
      memory charmed him into believing a captured muggle killed his
      mother, so that he could hate the muggle enough to use the killing
      curse. He wasn't even sure the entire thing happened, and he still
      felt it extremely difficult to cast the killing curse in his first
      Death Eater raid under Bellatrix's wand point."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">- <em class="calibre8">And it is very hard to decide if Lucius was really being
      cooperative, or if he was playing the game one level higher than I
      am.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He also defended himself in Parseltongue, saying that he didn't
      kill as many as people say he did, while he just told me that even
      Parseltongue could be fooled by memory charms." Harry sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So as to create plausible deniability?" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or Lucius was offering truth to the best of his knowledge. I
      admit that I am confused. We need to draw a chart for this." Harry
      reached into his pouch. "Paper and pencil. First, let's have the
      variables and assign possibilities. I assume Lucius doesn't want
      the world to come to its end, let that be 99.9%. The probability
      that Lucius loves Draco is, 95%, maybe? Or he is an amazing actor,
      5%. The probability that he wants to secure Draco's position, or
      promote him, hmm, let's say 90% in total, and 10% for he wants
      power for himself. Within the first category, Lucius may want to
      alienate us so that Draco can be number two -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Ha, if Lucius knew Voldemort made a horcrux for Hermione
      from Severus, he was probably the one who told Severus there was a
      rumor about horcruxes might be ominous for offsprings, or he did it
      by memory charms to let Severus think he heard it somewhere else.
      He expected Severus to tell me this, so I would be careful not to
      have kids with Hermione, and I would try to stop Hermione from
      having kids until everything got settled out. He might think that's
      a way that he can keep Hermione and I apart. Hmm, I can certainly
      verify if there is indeed a rumor and when the rumor came out by
      myself.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's inner critics interjected. <em class="calibre8">Are you sure you are not
      in the wishful thinking mode again? You wanted to believe horcruxes
      are OK to have, as long as you don't kill others for it yourself.
      Plus, it wasn't that likely for Severus to tell Lucius the details
      of that night. Lucius had to guess about the details of the ritual,
      remember? And don't forget the unknown effect of unicorn blood on
      childbirth.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione also obtained a pencil from her pouch, and started to
      help drawing a Bayesian chart while Harry recounted some of the
      things Lucius said in their conversation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just as Harry began to explain his discussion with Lucius on
      prison sentence, Hermione put down her pencil, and looked at Harry
      in the eyes. "Harry, I have a question. I understand that Lucius
      and you needed to agree on a plausible story and so on, and I am
      happy that he will be tried as himself. However, why did Lucius
      Malfoy confess his sins and negotiate his prison sentence with
      <em class="calibre8">you</em>? Instead of Madam Bones or anyone in the Department of
      Law Enforcement? Plea bargains should be negotiated with
      prosecutors, Harry. And determining the years to be served in
      prison by a Death Eater is not a war decision, so it should undergo
      the due legal process."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ahh… " Harry opened his mouth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't think of that. Apparently, nor did Lucius, nor
      Severus, nor Draco. Maybe this was the way how things were always
      done in the wizarding world, where people with real powers
      negotiate deals behind closed doors. Lucius successfully deduced -
      or Draco just told him - that Harry was behind Madam Bones.
      Guessing out this part wasn't hard after all. Therefore, Lucius
      wanted to reach a deal directly with Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, this scares me sometimes, you know." Hermione said in a
      flat tone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But - well, OK, you're right." Harry admitted reluctantly. "But
      I don't think I could let Lucius tell Madam Bones his reason for
      shorter imprisonment. Lucius was the binder for the Vow, I can't
      let Madam Bones know about the Vow, or the Prophecy that I may
      destroy the world. Even if only 0.01% of the people potentially
      saved by the Vow can be attributed to Lucius, he still saved 2.4
      million people."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione retorted. "But you said Lucius was forced by Voldemort
      to do it, he didn't volunteer. And Lucius Malfoy wanted to put me
      in Azkaban, Harry. Azkaban with dementors!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's true, but -" Now Harry's inner selves were conflicting
      between his care for Hermione and that for Draco. He sighed. "As I
      told you, the Dark Lord thought my game with Draco might lead to
      Lucius' moves against me, so he wanted to remove Lucius from the
      gameboard and alienate Draco from Lucius. The Dark Lord framed you
      in the attempted murder of Draco, called for the Azkaban sentence,
      and planned to present iron-clad evidences saying that Lucius did
      it to exile or imprison Lucius. Lucius, well, I guess he was evil
      enough to fall into the Dark Lord's trap, but some fathers who were
      not as evil as Lucius might also fall into the same trap. And after
      the Dark Lord murdered you, with some tricks from my part, Lucius
      reached a deal with me, became an ally, and carried out his part of
      the deal pretty well as far as I know. I guess that was part of the
      reason why the Dark Lord chose Lucius as the binder. So, at least,
      I am partially responsible for Lucius becoming the binder, and
      Lucius did try to do some good things before he died."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You still know Lucius is evil, and you respect law and justice,
      right?" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do. I just -" Harry stuttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">I just don't want to hurt Draco anymore. Draco almost lost
      his father when Voldemort tried to frame Lucius for the attempted
      murder, because I played my little games with Draco; then Draco did
      lose his father, because I killed Lucius; and now, for the third
      time…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, there is," Harry gulped, "Draco. You know what the
      last year was like for him. I feel like - I don't want Draco to
      lose his father again, and I also need to make sure justice is
      served."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione looked at Harry in the eyes, and argued reasonably.
      "That's exactly why you shouldn't be the judge here, Harry. I would
      understand if you want to treat Lucius Malfoy as the father of a
      friend, help him get lawyers, and you can testify in front of Madam
      Bones or the Wizengamot that what he said in Parseltongue is known
      to himself to be true. You should hand the legal process to
      professionals, so that you can be the friend who will help Draco to
      make sure that his father will get a fair trial. Just don't use
      your Boy-Who-Lived and Line of Merlin Unbroken power to force any
      leniency."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Ahh…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">That, that didn't occur to Harry, either. All of a sudden, the
      Boy-Who-Lived's face brightened up a bit, and his voice lighter,
      "Hermione, you are right. I didn't think of it. Yeah, after due
      legal processes, I can sort of let Madam Bones consider some reason
      to reduce Lucius' term, say, his escape and lost of magic had
      contributed a little bit in the prevention of world destruction by
      the Dark Lord's remnant."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione gave Harry a disapproving look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or, I will say that it was something that she is not to know,
      but Lucius was forced to sacrifice much of his magic to save quite
      a number of people, which is true as well." Harry thought of
      another reason.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"By the way, maybe we should ask Madam Bones to excuse herself
      from this case, because she has a conflict of interest, since her
      brother's whole family were murdered by Lucius." Hermione's brows
      frowned a bit. "Who in the Department of Law Enforcement doesn't
      have a conflict of interest? It's really hard to find someone
      considering Lucius' criminal history."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry felt a huge burden had been taken off from his shoulder,
      now he could defend Lucius as he liked. "I haven't tell you this
      part yet. Lucius said that Karkaroff led the raid on Madam Bones'
      brother's family, Bellatrix led the one on Monroe family, and he
      said he wasn't in either of those. He denied all sex-related crimes
      as well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What? Why? Are you sure he didn't memory charm himself or have
      someone else do it?" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not sure," Harry answered. "But he did offer a very good
      explanation, sort of. Remember that I told you the Dark Lord
      intentionally made his enemies more worthy? I guess the slaughter
      of the Bones family that only left Madam Bones and Susan unscathed
      was one such event, where the Dark Lord wanted to have a cunning
      and powerful witch who hated him enough. When Lucius was given such
      an assignment, Lucius just refused to create a powerful enemy like
      that, and managed to weasel out. Well, if my guesses are correct,
      few of Lucius' victims have any powerful family members left alive
      to pursue justice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione paused and frowned. "That explanation does make some
      sense, but it somehow scares me more than the ruthless random
      killings people say he did."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">No, it isn't. A sane and cunning enemy like Lucius tries to
      control the damage, or not to cause damage unless necessary; while
      a crazy or stupid one may be easy to defeat, but you have no idea
      what they might do. The evil and sane dark wizards like Voldemort
      and Lucius would try to prevent world destruction; a stupid or
      negligent villain, or "hero" for that matter, may not be able to
      suppress their curiosity, and just press the "Do Not Press,
      otherwise World Will End" button anyway.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed. "Hermione, maybe I have too high a standard,
      sometimes, I just hoped all our enemies, or all people, are half as
      sane as the Dark Lord, or even half as cunning as Lucius. Just
      think of this, if the whole revival thing goes public, and it is
      indeed as easy as Professor Snape originally thought, that one hair
      is enough, what would happen? I bet some negligent idiots will just
      try dangerous things that they would not usually try, and cause
      great damage to themselves and to the world. Remember what happened
      when we made the Stone available to everyone? We set up a queue
      system where people who wants to be younger and looks better can
      sign up on it, and the Hospital will do whatever they like when it
      is their turn and when the Stone is not in need for real lethal
      conditions. However, within less than one month, we saw an influx
      of witches and wizards who conducted free transfiguration on
      themselves, or did something equally stupid to themselves, so that
      they could have a real lethal condition that needed to be fixed by
      the Stone, and to have the nose they liked, or teeth they preferred
      at the same time. Several idiots did this multiple times, because
      they wanted to try different noses, or skin tones, or something
      like that. Several people died before they could get to the
      Hospital. They wouldn't die if they just waited in the queue and
      let professionals do it, or if they didn't know the Stone existed.
      When the news that high officials from all over the world are
      working on a law to imprison the idiots who did stupid things to
      themselves multiple times, the number of people in emergency just
      increased, because they wanted to get better looks before the law
      was passed. That's how stupid and reckless people can be if they
      think they have some sort of safenet, even when they still know
      that they can really die. Think what would happen when they know a
      single hair can revive them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione paused to think, and shuddered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">The world may not be ended by some smart villains, just by
      some reckless idiots, or by some arrogant heroes like us.</em> All
      parts of Harry agreed on this particular topic. <em class="calibre8">We need to
      rationalize the mind of everyone before we make revival publically
      available.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So anyway, we need to figure out a way to let people learn to
      be rational and careful, whilst not destroying the world in the
      teaching process." Harry sighed again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione nodded in agreement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, there is one more thing about Lucius that I need your
      opinion." Then Harry explained how Lucius would be quite useful in
      the dealing of international politics, and how Lucius' mind could
      be used to predict other dark wizards' movements. "The
      international politics stuff, I may be able to figure it out within
      a few years, the real problem is how to predict the thoughts of
      dark wizards. Dumbledore had difficulty in understanding Voldemort,
      Moody said he had difficulty predicting Lucius, Snape hadn't
      thought of the danger of the Stone and the revival ritual before
      Lucius pointed out to him, and I need to go into my dark side to
      predict Voldemort's moves. Oh, well, maybe I am only able to
      predict sane or semi-sane dark wizards. Two years ago, when I just
      met Draco, catering to fools were part of his instincts; while I
      was unable to lower my standard to do that, and maybe that's still
      who I am. So my guesses for Lucius Malfoy is that, he has a better
      understanding of the dark wizards' minds and the stupidity and
      other characteristic fallacies of common people. I wonder if we can
      use Lucius for these purposes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione fell into silence. Harry knew Hermione was in the same
      type of dilemma as he was. Lucius Malfoy was a calculating dark
      wizard and cold-blooded murderer himself, and was an expert in the
      exploitation of common people's stupidity, negligence, fear,
      greediness and other human flaws by generations of practise. These
      might be quite handy in the time being. However, such abilities of
      Lucius were objectionable in Hermione and Harry's moral systems,
      and both of them wanted to rid such things from human nature in the
      future. Plus, the trustworthiness of Lucius was a big pending
      question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a while, Hermione said with a frown. "Let's finish the
      Bayesian chart first, then we will have some standards to estimate
      how trustworthy Lucius is. We will figure out some ways to verify
      our prediction, and go from there." Hermione continued drawing on
      the paper, and said. "OK, I can think of one big question now: did
      Lucius modify his memory about the number of murders he committed?
      Professor Snape was a Death Eater, and he might know something
      about the murders Lucius denied, unless his memory was modified as
      well. Let's have Professor Snape on the chart as well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Well, Karkaroff is probably not that reliable as a witness,
      neither is Severus. The majority of Death Eaters in Nurmengard
      hardly remember the birthday of their kids. Letting Severus revive
      Quirrell might be a solution, but that will create more problems
      than solving them. And Bellatrix Black, I wonder how to catch
      her.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then a horrible idea came to Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">What would Voldemort/Harry do after being trapped by
      horcruxes hidden in obscure places?A cunning man as Voldemort was,
      he might not rely on one plan to work. Linking his Version 2.0
      horcrux system to the Resurrection Stone, and put some horcruxes in
      more obvious places, might not be his only improvements. He might
      entrust some of his horcruxes to Bellatrix as well. Since Voldemort
      is not dead, Version 2.0 horcruxes do not work now, but the Version
      1.0 horcruxes do.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">What order would Voldemort/Harry give to
      Bellatrix?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Guard my items well and hide yourself well while I return
      to my true body. If a certain item is activated, physically touch
      it, put your heart and soul to it. Otherwise, wait for a certain
      amount of time, if you are not contacted, trigger another set of
      items. Say, a Version 1.0 horcrux made just before I tried my hands
      on the Stone. And little Bella, I also have some knowledge that I
      need to temporarily store in your mind, but you are not to use them
      or think of them except to pass them back on to me. Or simply, just
      guard my pet snake really well, and don't look at it in the
      eyes.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, what's your idea for testing Lucius' trustworthiness?
      You are awfully quiet." Hermione asked while drawing a line between
      "Snape modified Lucius' memory" and "Snape lied about resurrection
      ritual".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's voice was unsteady as he said the sentences. "A ticking
      bomb of a lesser version of Voldemort returning. Once I began to
      throw away some of my previous assumptions, I didn't even need to
      sink into my dark side to see it. Voldemort might have entrusted
      some of his horcruxes to Bellatrix, and gave her an order when to
      trigger them unless contacted. One year seems to be a good waiting
      period to me. We need to find Bellatrix Black, very soon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione put down her pencil, hand shaking a little. "Harry, are
      you 99% sure that neither Lucius nor Professor Snape wants
      You-Know-Who back? If so, we should ask them to think as hard as
      possible on how to find Bellatrix Black."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at Hermione sadly. "Yes, we should. I will also ask
      Moody and Madam Bones, and I will sink into my dark side as well.
      Wake me up if I don't come back in fifteen minutes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, under the watchful eyes of his most trusted female
      companion, the Boy-Who-Lived sank fully into his dark side,
      wondering where Voldemort's most devoted female follower would
      be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">The next chapter will be up at 6 pm (EDT),
      04/15/2015</strong></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
