<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival - Revival Chapter 24 The Search, Part II, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s24" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 24: The Search, Pt II, Growing Up</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <p class="calibre6">7:06 am, June 28th, 1993</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus' patronus woke everyone up in a jolt. In the ex-Head of
      Slytherin's smooth voice, the bright ball said, "I am still doing
      the headcount, but I am sure that quite a number of snakes went
      missing, especially the more powerful and venomous ones."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rubbed his eyes, climbing up from his transfigured camp
      bed, and felt somewhat relieved: <em class="calibre8">whoever the enemy is, he or
      she still needs more snakes to complete his or her mission, and the
      enemy or the enemy's paw was still in Hogwarts until the last
      several hours.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Madam Bones sent out her patronus with a relieved smile,
      Harry thought of a certain powerful and venomous Blue Krait who was
      more intelligent and who might be able to provide more information
      than snakes with tracking spells. The problem was, Harry wasn't
      sure how Draco would take this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Oh, haven't we done with useless qualms now? Remember the
      disastrous results of our other ethical qualms?</em> Slytherin
      sneered. <em class="calibre8">Just threaten the dementors properly, and dispatch
      them to prey on Voldemort the moment Lucius sends a mental call to
      the dementors. Do your multiplications and Imagine how much safer
      the world would be if this plan were successful.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">But we don't want Draco to lose his father again.</em>
      Hufflepuff said in a small voice. <em class="calibre8">Especially, if the enemy is
      indeed Voldemort/Bellatrix, it is equal to handing "enemy's blood"
      to them.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">We can let Lucius drink some interesting potions before we
      let him search the pipelines. Mad-Eye may know some.</em> Slytherin
      said amidst horrified looks from all his other parts. <em class="calibre8">Or, just
      a cube of ice transfigured from a liter of frozen sulfuric acid
      that due to last only forty-eight hours. This way, if Voldemort
      uses Lucius' blood to revive, we will see some quite interesting
      effects. And if Lucius comes back before that, the Stone can make
      sure that he wouldn't be hurt. Plus, we can make sure that Lucius
      wouldn't try to run away.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What would happen if Lucius was captured?</em> Hufflepuff
      screamed at the top of his lungs. <em class="calibre8">Lucius wouldn't have any
      brain left this time!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Remember that Dumbledore had sent our parents to die? It's
      probably the time for us to learn the same.</em> Slytherin ignored
      the screams, and calmly suggested. <em class="calibre8">We can revive Lucius after
      we figure out how to tear apart Reality and Time, right?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't dare to look at Draco, whose face was turning
      whiter by the seconds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few seconds later, after Madam Bones signed some documents
      handed to her through the Floo, Mad-Eye Moody appeared in the
      fireplace with Lucius in full-body magical restraints.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Apparently, the old auror had made the difficult decision for
      Harry, again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lord Malfoy was allowed with his expensive and elegant robes,
      his hands were well manicured, and his long white mane was well
      groomed, for he was still Lord of a Noble and Most Ancient house,
      and he was not yet convicted. However, the unnatural paleness in
      his looks indicated something had already been taken care of.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mad-Eye's lips twisted into a vicious smile, "Lucius has kindly
      offered to lead the search for the missing snakes. Haven't you,
      Lord Malfoy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco jumped up from his transfigured camp bed, reaching for his
      snake-headed wand, and only to be stopped by his father's stern
      stares. "Draco, the Department of Law Enforcement has agreed to
      drop some of the most baseless charges, and I might be able to have
      home visits for good behavior." Lucius' voice became a little
      softer. "Moreover, I am happy that I would be in your Adult
      Ceremony and to watch you become the next Lord Malfoy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Lucius nodded to Madam Bones, "Madam Bones, would you
      please call for my wife Narcissa and Draco's godfather Severus
      here? The ceremony will be brief."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry could tell that Draco was fighting back his tears. Then,
      the blond boy began to quickly pluck protective magical artifacts
      out from his pouch and from his garments.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The senior Malfoy's voice cracked a little, with a bitter smile
      on his face. "Draco, Auror Moody already gave me the magical
      artifacts that I am allowed to use. You keep yours, and be safe
      yourself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco's hand trembled, and his entire body tensed up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From the hatred in the blond boy's eyes, Harry feared that Draco
      might be able to manage a killing curse toward Mad-Eye at this very
      moment. It was all good if your subordinates had some friendly
      rivalry, but mortal hatred was something Harry had to avoid. He
      needed to form a rescue plan, fast. "Ahh, Lord Malfoy, I think
      there is a highly useful charm that you may be able to learn now.
      With a few tricks, the Patronus charm can deliver messages and
      provide you with more protection."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The white-haired ex-Death Eater was unsure, "Lord Potter, I have
      tried after I know about Draco's, but -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry eyed the old auror who was about to say something, and
      pleaded. "Privacy charms, please?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mad-Eye gave an angry grunt, and applied a number of privacy
      charms around Harry, Draco, Lucius and himself. As the outside
      became blurs, the old auror's magical eye was constantly on
      Lucius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Harry spoke in Parseltongue. "<em class="calibre8">There iss ssome trickss
      that Sseveruss can teach you, sso a killing cursse may not kill you
      insstantly. I am not ssure, I only tried it once.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius looked at Harry in open shock. Slowly, he spoke with a
      frown, "<em class="calibre8">that iss how… Oh. Ressurrection and killing cursse are
      opposite of each other? Sseveruss ssaid he ssacrificed ssome of
      hiss magic and life to bring me back, and he wanted me to live than
      to die…</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Well, Lucius is smart, and his intuitions are good. He had
      thought that I was the Dark Lord after Hermione's trial, and in a
      sense, he was right.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Auror Moody, would you free me for a while? I shall try as Lord
      Potter suggested." Lucius said, then turned to Harry and hissed.
      "<em class="calibre8">No intention to hurt you or yourss, or to run away. Only tesst
      Patronuss charm.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded to Mad-Eye. The old auror grudgingly removed some
      magical restrictions from Lucius, then aimed his wand at Lucius'
      chest, "should I trust your cunning, Malfoy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius gave Mad-Eye a cold look, and accepted the snake-headed
      cane that Draco handed him. The ex-Death Eater took the stance, and
      twisted the wand precisely while looking at his son. "Expecto
      Patronum!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A faint layer of bright silver smoke came out of the wand tip.
      Harry guessed that smoke might be able to hold-off dementors, but
      it was definitely not enough to block the killing curse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius looked at Harry, frowning. "<em class="calibre8">Iss there ssomething that
      I have not guesssed out yet?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wasn't exactly sure how a Version 1.5 patronus worked, and
      as for more information…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slytherin sneered, <em class="calibre8">Lucius can't manage a truth patronus even
      if he is told the secrets, why are you hesitating whether to tell
      him the true secret?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Hufflepuff quietly suggested, <em class="calibre8">although the true
      patronus may be hard for most people, but we should let Draco and
      Mad-Eye know the secrets of Severus' patronus. They are also in
      danger now, remember?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Moody, is Professor Snape here yet? If so, could you let
      him in?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A moment later, the unkempt ex-Potions master walked in with a
      strong smell of sewage, and his expensive robe - possibly given to
      him by Narcissa and Draco - was spotted with sludge and moss.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before Severus and Mad-Eye could enter another round of stare
      contest, Harry quickly said, "Professor Snape, could you tell the
      secrets of your patronus to Draco, Lucius and Mr. Moody? My guesses
      are it can help to block the killing curse in case you absolutely
      can't dodge it. It may not stop the curse completely, but it may
      help to increase the chance of survival."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Both the normal eye and the magical eye of Alastor Moody
      became enlarged, then his face twisted. "Son, are you sure Snape
      should?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus and Draco was quite shocked as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't want any of you to encounter more danger than you
      absolutely have to." Harry said firmly, every part the
      Boy-Who-Lived that he was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus slowly nodded, and said. "The emotion needed to fuel my
      patronus is not something traditional considered happy thoughts. I
      would imagine the grief and emotion of rejection as I heard the
      death of someone I cared, and I need to imagine how good it would
      be if the deceased could be alive. Some happy memories about that
      particular person would also help."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco, Lucius and Mad-Eye fell into silence for a while. Then
      Draco pulled out his old wand from his pouch, and took the stance.
      The blond boy looked at his revived father with tears glistening in
      his eyes, and shouted: "Expecto Patronum!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A basketball-sized bright ball jumped out of Draco's wand
      tip.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco seemed to be surprised by his own patronus, then looked at
      his father, as if unsure of whether he should have done that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius smiled to his son with encouragement, proud and a hint of
      loss, "Draco, my son, you are truly an adult and a Lord Malfoy
      today." The blond man waved his snake-headed wand, and said,
      "Expecto Patronum."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A bright ball that was slightly smaller and fainter than Draco's
      exited the Malfoy family wand, and approached Draco's patronus. If
      light balls could hug, Harry would say that the two patronuses were
      hugging each other.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius looked at the merging pure lights with some longing, as
      if hoping this moment could last forever, then asked, "Auror Moody,
      can we invite my wife Narcissa in for the ceremony?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mad-Eye ignored Lucius, deep in his own thoughts. Then the old
      auror snarled. "Damn it, too many have died! Expecto Patronum!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A large aura of pure light left Moody's wand. For less than half
      a second, Harry thought he might have seen neck and shoulder, but
      the cloud consolidated into a large ball instead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I guess there is still some riddle that I need to solve."
      Mad-Eye twisted his wand back at Lucius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Believe me, you can't do it even if you have solved the riddle,
      so don't waste your time." Severus smirked. "And I gather neither
      you nor I has the need to kill dementors anyway, that is, of
      course, in case you can have the few reserved ones in check."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mad-Eye gave Severus a suspicious look, grunted something, and
      started to wave his wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at the smirking black-haired man in shock and
      admiration: <em class="calibre8">Severus has solved the riddle?! He is surely
      sharper in magic than I thought. And a note to self: understanding
      the secrets of powerful magic, even the light ones, does not mean
      one can perform those, the same goes with Hermione's inability to
      cast the killing curse.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Narcissa walked into the circle, the tall and slim witch held
      her wand tight, her eyes half on her husband and son, and half on
      Mad-Eye who was jabbing her with a number of charms and interesting
      looking magical devices. Narcissa was as elegantly dressed as her
      husband, but her blue eyes were blood-shot, puffy circles were
      visible through make-ups and beautification charms, and her cheeks
      were a bit shallower than Harry saw her last time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After Mad-Eye reluctantly finished his checking, Narcissa smiled
      as if nothing bothersome had happened, and reached into her pouch.
      "Auror Moody, I was wholeheartedly delighted to hear that your
      colleagues have enjoyed my cookies, so I have prepared some
      more."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the old auror's magical eye darted back and forth between the
      large luxuriously decorated box with snake ribbons and the innocent
      looking noblewoman, Harry could tell this was a deliberate move to
      create more work for the old auror who was constantly on guard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Narcissa then turned to her husband who was smirking with proud
      and encouragement, "Lucius, my dear, I am so happy that you can be
      in Draco's ceremony today."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, my darling, our son is truly a grown man today." Lucius'
      smirk was replaced by a genuine smile as he pointed to the two
      hugging light balls, his head perceptibly higher, and spoke with a
      quiet pride, "and I am pleased that Draco has found broader light
      of life now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco opened his mouth at this point, as if he wanted to say
      something to his father, but an assured smile from Lucius stopped
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is -" Narcissa looked at the patronuses, a little
      unsure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draco's patronus and mine; aren't they beautiful together?"
      Lucius reached out, and petted the brighter of the two hugging
      patronuses, while Draco blushed a little.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mad-Eye's normal eye rolled, while his magical eye jumped all
      directions with some emphasis on the Malfoys as usual. "Be quick,
      you are wasting your own borrowed time!" He snarled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Narcissa's eyes widened, then horrible apprehension began to
      appear on her face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius smiled to his wife, and then turned to Draco. The
      white-haired Malfoy patriarch put the snake-headed cane firmly into
      Draco's hand. His voice was smooth and unequivocal. "Draco Lucius
      Malfoy, my dear son, you are a true adult and a true Lord Malfoy
      today. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Lucius took the three-snake ring handed to him by Narcissa,
      and put it on Draco's left middle finger. "Draco, bone of my bone
      and flesh of my flesh, may you have eternal health and happiness,
      may the world flourish because of you, and you will be the greatest
      Lord Malfoy that has yet lived."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Lucius embraced Draco in his arms and kissed his forehead,
      Harry could tell that Draco was about to cry, but the new Lord
      Malfoy suppressed his emotions in front of Mad-Eye who was pointing
      his wand at them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Narcissa also hugged Draco, and gave her blessings. "Draco,
      my son, fruit of my loins, may you have strength and wisdom, may
      you find love and marry a wonderful bride, and may you father many
      magical children."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco visibly blushed at his mother's blessings, and the fever
      became more heated when Narcissa kissed his forehead and
      cheeks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus stepped in front of his new godson, and cleared his
      throat, some softness foreign to those black eyes took an effort to
      emerge. "Draco, my son in the eyes of the gods above and our
      ancestors in Atlantis, may you gain knowledge and powerful magic,
      -" the man stopped for a while, as if searching for words, "may you
      find true friendship." The black-haired man seemed to have fallen
      back to his comfort zone as he added his last sentence, "and I
      shall do my best to offer my protection and guidance."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Severus wrapped his arms around his slender godson, the man
      was a bit stiff in his movements. Severus quickly brushed his lips
      on Draco's forehead, then patted Draco's shoulder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright, Lucius Malfoy, it's time for you to do your job now."
      Mad-Eye's words won him stares from Severus and the Malfoys.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Emm, there's one more thing," Harry interjected, "I need to go
      and properly threaten the dementors the aurors brought here, so
      that they can respond to Lucius' mental calling if he encounters
      You-Know-Who."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius raised one eyebrow, then nodded politely to Harry. "No
      words can describe my gratitude, Lord Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slytherin quietly said, <em class="calibre8">well, Lucius knows dementors work by
      expectations anyway. And should we give us plus one point in
      manipulation for letting Mad-Eye be the bad guy and appearing
      benign ourselves?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Shut up.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In canon, Book 2, the young Tom Riddle had said in Parseltongue
      "<em class="calibre8">Speak to me, Slytherin, the greatest of Hogwarts Four</em>" to
      open the gate for Salazar's monster. Therefore, in canon,
      Parseltongue did contain names.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If we assume Salazar built Parseltongue based on his own
      knowledge, why would such a proud man who called himself "the
      greatest of Hogwarts Four" not include his own name in the
      language?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moreover, making up translations of people's names can't be too
      different from making up nouns that describes magical items, such
      as horcrux. In the process of conjuring hundreds and thousands of
      nouns describing spells, rituals, and lore into Parseltongue, it
      was quite reasonable to include people's names, especially in the
      lore part.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Third, a lot of names in Harry Potter did exist in Salazar's
      time, and it is reasonable to believe he knew them. Lucius, Severus
      and Draco are relatively common names in ancient Rome; Hermione,
      Minerva are names of goddesses in Greek/Roman mythology;
      Harry/Henry/Harrold is a common English name since the Middle Ages.
      I assume Salazar should know these names from his Latin learning or
      pursuit of Greek/Roman lore or just by teaching in Hogwarts, though
      I admit Salazar might not know the names such as Xiaoguang Li or
      Padma Patil.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">I am sorry that</strong> <strong class="calibre9"><strong class="calibre9">I need to
      postpone the next update, because I am</strong> waiting for my
      betas to give me feedback on my next chapter.</strong></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
