<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival - Revival Chapter 27 The Search, Sacrifices, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s27" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 27: The Search, Pt IV, Sacrifices</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">All my thanks to Jared, Joe, and Kuilin, who beta-ed this
      chapter.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>

      <p class="calibre6">10:44 am, June 28th, 1993</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In a small circle of privacy in the headquarter office, Harry,
      Hermione, Draco and Madam Bones were all focusing their attention
      at a newly installed large two-way screen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The screen showed the hastily-emptied transfiguration research
      room, where only the stone platform to perform experiments on was
      left. Lucius stood on the platform, pondering something with a
      temporary wand in his hands. Mad-Eye Moody stood on the side of the
      platform, quite ready to throw a number of interesting hexes on the
      ex-Lord Malfoy if the blond man dared to do anything extra. In the
      meantime, Severus was looking back and forth between the rat in the
      cage besides Lucius and the blond man with unreadable eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry also took a great interest in Lucius' demonstration on two
      different levels: Can Lucius' great invention actually work? If so,
      what does this mean for the current war?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius took the Patronus stance, and twisted his temporary wand
      in two circles and one slash in the middle. As if putting his life
      and magic into the wand, Lucius shouted, "Protego Vitamaxima!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A bright white-blue shield sprang out from Lucius' wand's tip.
      The shield was brighter and more solid than any shield that Harry
      had ever seen, which should be impossible considering Lucius'
      impaired magical level.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Severus pointed his wand at Lucius' shield, but away from
      Lucius' person. "Reducto!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The blasting hex rebounded off the powerful shield as
      expected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus went one step up with the curses. "Sectumsempra!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The powerful cutting hex invented by Severus himself was blocked
      by the shield as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Crucio!" Severus shouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This time Lucius' shield cracked a little, and the blond man
      became a little whiter, but the curse was still blocked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think it would be best if we put it to the ultimate test
      soon, for my magic may not last long." Sweat began to show on
      Lucius' forehead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mad-Eye sneered, stunned the rat, transfigured its face into
      something resembling Voldemort's snake-like face, and put it on top
      of the cage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius then tilted his shield to be more on the rat than
      himself, and nodded to Severus nervously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The dark-haired man slightly closed his eyes, then focused on
      the face of the rat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knew that it was difficult for anyone with level-one
      knowledge of the killing curse to hate a rat enough to cast it,
      which was why Mad-Eye had transfigured the rat's face, helping
      Severus trick his mind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The ex-spy cast. "Avada Kedavra!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A bolt of green light exited Severus' black wand, hitting the
      bright-blue shield. Some green light was shattered while the shield
      cracked, dimmed, and winked out. At the same time, both Lucius and
      Severus began to scream upon the contact of their magic, both
      instinctively dodging to avoid the scattering green light. Then,
      both ex-Death Eaters threw away their wands as previously
      instructed by Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The scream and twitching of the two ex-Death Eaters became
      subdued after their wands were out of their hands, while the
      high-pitched desperate shriek of another animal became quite
      obvious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The rat on top of the cage was clearly tortured, but it was
      still alive.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone looked at the tortured rat with amazed eyes. Severus
      groaned, "The pain I endured was just a bit worse than Crucio, but
      the residual magic that passed through the shield was not even
      enough to kill a rat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At any other time, Harry would be absolutely delighted by
      Lucius' great insight that could block the killing curse, which was
      a great step in the mission of conquering death. Harry might want
      the Wizengamot to give Lucius an Order of Merlin for it, and might
      even argue for a one-hundred-year reduction in prison time for
      Lucius. However, at this moment, Harry could only ask one question:
      is Lucius really the inventor of this spell? If not, in the name of
      Merlin, what happened?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">About twenty minutes ago, when Severus heard Lucius talking
      about the stance, gesture, and incantation of the proposed spell,
      he sneered: "Lucius, you do not become a charms master on par with
      Albus Dumbledore or the Dark Lord the moment you feel the need for
      a new orientation in life, even if your life depends on it.
      Guessing the secret behind a powerful spell or ritual, maybe.
      However, working out the stance, gesture, and incantation within
      the time interval of searching one pipeline? It is simply
      impossible, even for the likes of Dumbledore! Or are you claiming
      yourself to be -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus stopped in mid-sentence, and instead asked Lucius to
      perform the spell. The moment the dark-haired man saw a seemingly
      solid white-blue shield, he called for help from Alastor Moody.
      When Mad-Eye answered that he couldn't turn back in time, Severus
      apologized, threw all the binding spells he could on Lucius, before
      dragging the white-haired man to the transfiguration research
      room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After Mad-Eye rushed to the room, he frisked Lucius with all the
      diagnostic spells and trinkets he could think of, finding nothing
      abnormal. Then he proposed a final test result that could only show
      up once during Lucius' current life span, anytime between 12:45 am
      and 6:45 am this June 30th.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If there is no Time-Turner involved, the ex-Lord Malfoy would
      be completely fine until about 6 am, June 30th. If any symptoms
      show up before that, well, I guess we know the result. So, Lucius,
      you'd better tell us all the truth," Mad-Eye snarled viciously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius was properly panicked by the test that Mad-Eye proposed,
      and protested loudly, "You have promised to use the Stone on me
      after twenty-four hours, not forty-eight! Am I supposed to believe
      that this is not a scheme of yours to simply kill me? I know you
      want to. How am I to know if your transfiguration is timed well
      enough?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knew the test Mad-Eye proposed was a good one to know
      whether a Time-Turner was involved in Lucius' case. However, there
      were multiple questions involved: first, Mad-Eye is a perfect
      occlumens who can't speak Parseltongue, so there is no convenient
      way to know whether Mad-Eye is telling what is perceived by himself
      to be the truth, such as how many hours the transfiguration was
      supposed to last; second, even if Mad-Eye is telling the truth, the
      Confundus Charm and memory charms, along with a number of other
      things, are still a danger; third, nobody has tested Mad-Eye's
      transfiguration precision besides himself, and it is known that
      people tend to exaggerate their own abilities in their own minds;
      fourth and most importantly, the test subject, one Lucius Malfoy,
      is in lethal danger, and he objects the test with good grounds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Therefore, Harry proposed another test: just let Lucius cast the
      spell he thought might block the killing curse along with other
      hexes. If the shield failed, it could be a highly-unwise whim of
      Lucius, but if it was successful like now…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had no choice but to consider some sinister
      explanations.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius had claimed in Parseltongue that he didn't know that
      anything abnormal had happened - there just might have been a
      slight disorientation, but that could have been caused by the fact
      that he hadn't had any breakfast that morning, and then he had
      crawled in pipelines for three hours with an empty stomach.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To Harry, the slight disorientation strongly suggested a
      Time-Turner and memory charms, though Lucius himself might prefer
      the other explanation. The blond man argued that since the
      remembrall handed to him hadn't glowed, and he had invented a
      hair-smoothing spell when he was fifteen, and a robe-shaping charm
      when he was sixteen, therefore this new spell must be his own
      invention.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Because everyone would like to believe themselves to be a
      genius. Acquiring the ability to figure out details of a powerful
      spell takes years of hard learning. Even after that, it would take
      much longer than a few hours for most wizards who are as brilliant
      as Dumbledore to do it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't need to say this part, because Mad-Eye said it for
      him. "A remembrall is such a weak magical item. I have a dozen ways
      to fool it, I'm sure Voldie has at least that. I wouldn't be
      surprised if you formulated a conspiracy to overthrow the
      Wizengamot in half an hour, but crafting a spell? Pfft. Are you
      suggesting that you are as smart as your previous master? If so,
      why don't you go and hunt down the bastard, and give us his head in
      exchange for the use of the Stone?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How could the Dark Lord possibly conjure up some spell
      involving the Patronus charm?" Lucius argued reasonably. "Moreover,
      why am I alive? Why are you alive? Why is Draco unscathed?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mad-Eye snarled, "Perhaps you defected back to the Dark Lord,
      and told him everything about the Patronus charm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you think that he would let me go just because I told him
      the secret behind a spell that he couldn't cast?" Lucius rebutted
      sarcastically. "Not even Dumbledore would let me go unscathed. I
      wonder how you became delusional enough to believe the Dark Lord
      suddenly became a saint."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe he plotted to get to Harry through you, and this great
      spell was only imprinted to your memory because he wanted Harry
      Potter to observe the effect himself. Probably there is some
      trigger that would only be activated by the presence of Harry, or
      Hermione, or something on their body, etc. Good thing that Severus
      directly dragged you here. You can claim your innocence all you
      want in Parseltongue now, but when the time comes, you will bring
      disaster the moment something is triggered, you vile snake!"
      Mad-Eye stopped, and his lips twitched. "Maybe he would want you
      not only to bring him Harry Potter, but also the new Lord Malfoy.
      Then, he will let you torture your own precious son to death
      yourself, or let you torture each other to death."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius' face turned a shade whiter when he heard Mad-Eye's
      proposed scenarios.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knew what Mad-Eye proposed was entirely possible for the
      Voldemort the old Auror knew, but now Harry had another
      explanation: Voldemort is practicing being nice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-A Version 1.0 Patronus is impossible for Voldemort, because
      that psychopath probably can never be happy enough to cast the
      Patronus charm; the true Patronus is impossible for him as well,
      for he doesn't value the lives of others. However, a Version 1.5
      Patronus may actually work for him, because Voldemort may be able
      to think how great it is for himself to live while rejecting his
      own death.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry cursed himself again for being too slow for the uptake,
      being too loose on important secrets, and -</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Hermione didn't stop me, because she wanted everyone to have
      the maximum probability of survival as I do; Draco might have seen
      the danger, but he didn't stop me, because he wanted to increase
      his father's chances to live.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Oh, are you trying to blame your friends for your mistakes? What
      kind of hero are you? Hufflepuff chided Harry. I thought we had all
      agreed on the heroic responsibility thing. And it is neither
      Hermione nor Draco's responsibility to prevent world destruction,
      but we dragged them into it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-I am just stating the facts, not blaming them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That rebuttal won Harry a sour face from Hufflepuff and a sneer
      from his internal-consistency checker.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Somewhere in the back of Harry's mind, he could imagine
      Professor Quirrell's cold sardonic laughs: when the Dark Lord does
      something nice, the "good" people just quarrel amongst themselves
      more!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can see why." Madam Bones spoke gravely. "The Dark Lord is
      using a good person or multiple good persons as pawns. In the
      Azkaban breakout, I thought he had told some extensive lies to a
      good, clever, and powerful person to deceive him or her into
      rescuing Bellatrix Black, because that person subdued Bahry without
      killing him, and that person used transfigured water as rocker fuel
      so that the Aurors wouldn't be badly hurt when the transfiguration
      wore out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Although we know what really happened in Azkaban, Madam Bones'
      idea is another possibility. Voldemort might have used some good
      and powerful wizards as pawns. For example, Voldemort took on the
      identity of Alexander Chernyshov. It is reasonable to believe that
      some of his followers back then were genuinely good people, and
      they were absolutely loyal to him. He might even have taught some
      supporters some powerful magic to keep up appearances. Voldemort
      could have easily gone to supporters like that. He could tell them
      the sole reason he had disappeared for so long, was that he was
      killed and remained as only an incorporeal ghost, sustained by a
      horcrux he made when he slayed an evil enemy. He might have told
      his supporters that Lucius was his enemy for some made-up reason -
      Lucius wasn't a good person anyway - and told his supporters to get
      Lucius' blood. Or, he might have told his supporters that he needed
      Lucius' blood for some good reason, so his supporters would do it
      more willingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-And one of Voldemort's powerful supporters might have felt
      sorry for taking Lucius' blood and mind-charming him, so he or she
      left a cue of a recently invented powerful protection spell to
      Lucius. And he or she might think letting giant spiders kill each
      other was a good thing to do as well. Or the last part was
      Professor Quirrell's act.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-As for flesh from a servant, that's no problem for Voldemort at
      all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Father's bone, hmm, maybe Voldemort had cut his father's body
      into pieces, and buried the pieces over a wide region near Earth's
      surface.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-At any rate, dementors are probably no longer a powerful weapon
      against Voldemort. Or, is that another bluff on Voldemort's part,
      like the time that he tricked us to doubt the Hogwarts wards?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Harry began to think about the Hogwarts wards, he started to
      miss the Map that could show everyone's name within Hogwarts. When
      the Aurors burned everything besides Professor Quirrell's body, the
      Map was burned as well. At the time, Harry had considered it rather
      convenient, fearing someone else might find out that the Hogwarts
      wards considered him to be Tom Riddle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Therefore, when Mad-Eye included the true-name system of the
      Hogwarts wards into the protection on the Room of Requirement,
      Harry made no suggestion as to try to make another Map to cover the
      entire range of Hogwarts, but rather he made a mental note to
      himself not to go anywhere near the Room of Requirement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Now, if we had the Map…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No, Harry needed to stop blaming himself, because that could
      wait. He needed to think of something useful.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-If I were Voldemort, what would I do?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry started to model Voldemort in his mind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Blood purity is nonsense, since I, a half-blood, am the most
      powerful wizard in the world, so I wouldn't need Lucius' blood for
      its purity. Lucius is not a powerful wizard, therefore his blood is
      inferior. I would definitely need something better.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-For example, I would need Hermione Granger's blood, since she
      is quite powerful on her own accord, and her blood contains the
      power of a unicorn and a troll.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-On the other hand, I may also have some powerful enemies in
      some other parts of the world. Their blood may also suffice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-I would still want the Stone. Hmm, the nice version of wanting
      the Stone would be to use a false identity, fake some dangerous
      condition, and let the healers send me to the Hospital. I have
      ample time to do that before Bellatrix's body decays, or even after
      her body decays, because I have other loyal servants who would die
      for me without any questions being asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Plus, confusing my enemies, showing my omnipotence, and being
      nice in the meantime are rather fun.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think this is a backup plan for the Dark Lord," Harry said
      grimly. "He wouldn't be satisfied by anything less than Hermione's
      blood."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry could see that Lucius wanted to sneer but quickly caught
      himself, and Hermione gasped slightly before her hand covered her
      mouth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think Voldie would prefer yours, but the Girl-Who-Revived's
      might barely do," Mad-Eye pondered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-No, there is the magical resonance thing, so he wouldn't use my
      blood for his revival. Plus, he wouldn't risk himself with me
      again, not until he got all his power back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't say it, because other dark wizards might have
      wanted his blood for some unrelated evil ritual, and continued to
      model Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-What would I do after I obtained a lesser enemy's blood, and
      had everything I need for a lesser revival ritual?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-I might obtain more blood from lesser enemies. I have quite a
      bunch of them all over the world. And I would need a plot to get
      the best blood I can, of course.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Moreover, the Stone. I would need to obtain the Stone. And I
      would need to kill the younger Tom Riddle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Or better. If I threatened the younger Tom Riddle with world
      destruction and promised not to destroy the world myself, my
      younger self might steal the Stone for me and kill himself. Yeah,
      the world would be safer with the younger Tom Riddle dead, and I
      would be doing a nice thing. However, the boy might pull a trick on
      me again, so this would be just another backup plan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-The world might be boring without my younger self, so I may
      throw him into the Mirror and save him for my later
      entertainment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Oh, the Mirror!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had a grim smile on his young face. He now knew what he
      should do. All the time, he always knew what he should do, he just
      avoided thinking of it because it was just too painful.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-I can invoke the ritual that Dumbledore used, which he left
      some instructions for in the secret room in the Headmaster's
      office. I can lock myself and all other Tom Riddles in Time. With
      some maneuver, I may even be able to get Dumbledore out in the
      process.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-I should give this thing a countdown clock as a dead-man's
      switch, where I need to periodically send a signal to reset the
      countdown within a certain period of time, or otherwise the Mirror
      will lock all Tom Riddles in Time. No, it should be a combination
      of positive triggers and negative triggers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Since dementors work on expectations, incorporating them in the
      ritual as remote controls would be a good idea. And since Voldemort
      only guessed how dementors worked after he killed MacNair, the
      current Horcrux Voldemort probably doesn't know.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-To be safe, I need to figure out multiple ways to trigger this
      ritual. A brainstorm with Mad-Eye, Severus, Hermione, and Draco may
      produce some.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-The disappearance of one good person together with potentially
      many other evil ones, and a much safer world. Just what a hero in a
      story should do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-As for my other projects such as conquering death, Hermione and
      Draco might be able to do that. And after Hermione has lead sapient
      beings to conquer far-away galaxies or other universes, she might
      release all Tom Riddles from the Mirror, save me, and blast the
      ancient Earth plus the Pioneer plaques - no, the Milky Way Galaxy
      for safety precautions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-That's definitely a working plan, which actually fits the
      Prophecies indicated by Dumbledore and Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a scarily bright smile on his face, the Boy-Who-Lived
      happily said, "Madam Bones, Mr. Moody, Professor Snape, Draco, and
      Hermione, I have something to talk about with each of you in
      private, and maybe some of you in groups."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">8:14 pm, July 2nd, 1993 (local time)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A balding brown-haired white man in wizarding robes floated
      invisibly in the middle of the air, looking downward with cold and
      calculating eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Beneath him, hundreds of Muggles in festive clothes were densely
      packed on a river boat decorated with a 20-foot tall pagoda,
      cheering happily, and thousands more were cheering for them on the
      river banks, for this was a well-attended local holiday on this
      heavily populated island.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man drew out a brand-new black wand, and made a slight
      gesture.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A holiday firework shooting out from the river bank made a small
      departure from its original path, and took its aim at the holiday
      boat. Some people on the boat saw the stray firework that was
      shooting toward them, and tried to move away, while other people
      who couldn't see the rocket were pushed to the other side of the
      boat. The shift of the center of weight of the boat, with the help
      of some timely wind on the top of the pagoda, tilted the barge. As
      some cracking noises from the boat were heard, the mass on the boat
      became panicked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a wave of his hand, a large piece of parchment and a quill
      invisible to the crowd below appeared in front of the man in the
      middle of the air. As Muggles fell into the river like cherries
      falling into a washing pan, the calls from Muggles took a sudden
      turn from happiness to panic, the man occasionally twitched his
      wand and murmured something low in an ancient language.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As men, women, and children who were good swimmers their whole
      lives found themselves unable to keep themselves afloat in the warm
      July water, the quill in the middle of the air would note down
      something on the parchment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The balding man frowned: hmm, drowning doesn't work so well. Do
      I have to build a gas chamber myself?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When a hint of blackness began to form over the river where
      hundreds of people were drowning, the brown-haired wizard instantly
      gathered his quill and parchment, and apparated away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-It seems that the formation of dementors are another concern of
      this method, but this surely proves that massive deaths of Muggles
      do have some magical effect. Did Grindelwald use some method to
      prevent dementors from forming, or did he use some method to
      channel the magic elsewhere, or did he use someone with a Patronus
      to help him? Hmm.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
