<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival - Revival Chapter 28 Memory Charms, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s28" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 28: Memory Charms</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">All my thanks to Jared, Joe, and Kuilin, who beta-ed this
      chapter.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>

      <p class="calibre6">11:57 pm, July 2nd, 1993</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Accompanied by an Auror trio, Severus walked slowly through the
      stone hallways of Hogwarts, slightly dazed. He and Mad-Eye had
      escorted Harry back to his bed chamber in Ravenclaw, where an Auror
      trio would guard the Boy-Who-Lived for the night, and Mad-Eye had
      just departed through the Floo in Minerva's office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Usually, Severus would prefer a solitary walk in an almost-empty
      Hogwarts at night. However, the current security protocol required
      that nobody should ever pass through the corridors alone. What was
      worse, to the dismay of both Severus and the current Auror trio,
      Severus and Auror Bahry had to share what used to be Severus'
      temporary living room, while the place Severus had called his
      bedroom for a few days was shared by Auror McJorgenson and Trainee
      Auror Tonks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Any other time, Severus would hate this rather inconsiderate
      arrangement; but he knew his current daze, caused by multiple
      advanced memory charms, might impair his ability to defend himself
      for a short while - so he tolerated the presence of the Auror trio
      for now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Well, my patience will run out when the women begin their
      long showers, while Bahry and I have to wait for our turns. Merlin
      knows why women can take showers together, while Bahry and I would
      rather hex each other than do the same. Perhaps that's because
      Tonks and McJorgenson like each other, while Bahry and I despise
      each other.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus gave an inward sigh and dearly hoped this safety
      protocol would end soon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">To be honest, who are we kidding? The glasses we are
      wearing at all times may prevent immediate death by basilisk
      attacks, but the Dark Lord can probably kill all of us without any
      magic. Even I can think of Muggle explosives. The Dark Lord can
      surely think of something better.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">And the Boy-Who-Lived's plot, whatever it is, will it
      work?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus frowned slightly, wondering what the things that he
      didn't remember now were. He remembered that Harry Potter had
      called him into the Headmistress' Office four days ago after
      Hermione, Draco, and Mad-Eye each had their own talks with the
      Boy-Who-Lived. Potter had asked Severus whether he would
      participate in something and then be memory-charmed about it,only
      recalling part of it after certain events occurred. Severus had
      surely agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">The Girl-Who-Revived seemed a bit sad after her talk with
      Potter, so whatever the plot is, it must require some sacrifices on
      our side. Would that boy be stupid enough to really act
      Dumbledore-ish, and sacrifice himself? That's surely a
      possibility.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus felt a familiar wave of sadness and nausea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-If only we can somehow preserve the boy's head when he
      sacrifices himself, maybe I can revive him.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Otherwise, I can only hope one of three things turn out our
      way. First, Potter is creative enough that he will think of
      something powerful enough to defeat the Dark Lord again using the
      lessons that Mad-Eye and I are about to teach him. Second, my
      future attempt to corrupt magical officials of the former Soviet
      states may result in some interesting discoveries, and the boy may
      get something more from those. Third, as Lucius has offered, he may
      be able to weasel out some secrets from Grindelwald after he is
      sentenced.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-Grindelwald had been literally invincible before his Muggle
      allies failed - or at least that was what Albus claimed, though I
      never asked Albus the question in Parseltongue - so there must be
      something there. Nazis had notorious concentration camps that
      killed Muggles in very meticulous manners: could that be the
      secret? If so, can we use the natural deaths of Muggles to boost
      Potter's magic for a while? Tens of thousands Muggles die from
      natural causes every day anyway.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The ex-Death Eater continued his thought that would definitely
      be condemned by the "good" people of magical Britain as he entered
      his temporary residence. When the women went to the bathroom, Bahry
      and Severus stared at each other, before they each went into their
      own beds with curtains drawn.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus reached into his pouch, drawing out his dark-blue
      suitcase containing most of his books, and descended into his
      suitcase-study.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus' plan for tonight had been learning Russian in
      preparation for his future trip to whichever former Soviet states
      had enough secrets and plenty of corruptible magical officials, but
      his heart wasn't exactly in Russian now. For some reason Severus
      had a feeling that if he were to learn ancient runes or Egyptian
      hieroglyphs tonight, he might gain more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Is this related to what I did for the past three days? Is
      it possible that the Boy-Who-Lived knew something from his Line of
      Merlin Unbroken heritage, and asked Mad-Eye and me to perform the
      magic for him? The knowledge might not be Interdicted, but ancient
      and powerful for sure. Or, the boy had guessed the secret of some
      Interdicted magic, and just needed us to fill in the
      details.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus sat down by his solid wooden desk, adjusted the light in
      the study, and summoned the <em class="calibre8">Advanced Magical Hieroglyphs</em>
      that he had duplicated from Hogwarts library, and the <em class="calibre8">Ancient
      Egyptian Hieroglyphs</em> that he had duplicated from the British
      library.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus sighed inwardly for the wizarding kind: <em class="calibre8">even in the
      language that is considered magical, the Muggles know more these
      days. Should I feel lucky the wizards hired by the goblins to work
      in the pyramids don't study Muggle Egyptology? There might still be
      something left for me to discover there.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Maybe after we get rid of the Dark Lord once and for all, I
      can explore Latin America, Egypt, Iraq, Iran, India, China, and
      Japan as I originally planned. Actually, I should travel to Iraq
      and Iran first, before the Muggles start another war in the region
      and destroy everything.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus looked longingly at his large collection of
      mostly-untouched language and history books that he duplicated with
      the help of several memory charmed and bribed Muggle librarians in
      the British Library. He knew all his planning would only be
      dreaming if the Boy-Who-Lived's plan didn't work out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After Severus had flipped through quite some pages in his third
      read-through of <em class="calibre8">Ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphs</em>, Auror Bahry
      yelled something outside the suitcase, and Severus ignored him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Let him take the bath first. The hieroglyphs are really
      beginning to make sense to me now.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">However, by this time, Severus started to feel some emptiness in
      his stomach. Severus murmured, "Tempus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"12:42 am, July 3rd, 1993" showed up in the air.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus then drew out his mechanical pocket watch from his
      pouch, and it showed 6:42 am.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">I must have somehow turned my Time-Turner six times in the
      past twenty-four hours, for some purpose that I don't remember. And
      as a matter of fact, when did I have my last meal?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus shook his head, trying to get the light fog of tiredness
      and the after-effect of memory charms away, and summoned a frozen
      burger from his pouch. While heating the burger, Severus
      absent-mindedly noted that the memory charms he or someone else had
      used on him must be quite strong, since he was still feeling the
      after-effect.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-However, there is something not quite right. What is
      it?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus opened his pouch and dug into it, hoping he had left
      himself a note or some other form of communication.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
