<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival - Revival Chapter 31 Descendants III, Lucius, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s31" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 31: Descendants Pt III, Lucius Malfoy</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">All my thanks to Jared, Joe, and Kuilin, who beta-ed this
      chapter.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">10:14 am, June 28th, 1993</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From the sparse Parseltongue dialogue and whatever Salazar could
      guess from conversations in vernacular, he had gathered that Lucius
      was now held as a political prisoner, while little Draco was
      serving as a lieutenant for the young Tom Riddle. Salazar could
      guess why this was the case: <em class="calibre8">Tom Riddle wants to separate
      little Draco from his father, so he can better manipulate little
      Draco. Moreover, he can use Lucius to threaten Draco, or use Draco
      to manipulate Lucius. That's why Draco goes into the Forbidden
      Forest to face cannibalistic giant spiders, and why Lucius is
      searching in pipelines for the unknown threat, aka, me. This young
      Tom Riddle also controls Severus with some leverage I haven't
      figured out yet.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The games that the younger Tom Riddle were playing contained
      some basic manipulation techniques that Salazar had used, but when
      it came to some descendant Salazar disliked manipulating some
      descendants who had entertained Salazar, it was a different
      matter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Therefore, Salazar needed to evaluate the worthiness of Lucius
      and Severus the Stutterer, to see if he needed to plot something to
      free these boys from Tom Riddles.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The result of the evaluation was quite unexpected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Directing Lucius into an empty classroom temporarily hidden from
      anyone else's eyes was quite amusing. Salazar shifted the sewer
      that Lucius was in toward the empty classroom, and called through
      the pipelines: "<em class="calibre8">Greetingss, desscendant of Angitia and Draco, I
      mean you no harm.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The mirror spell Salazar put in the sewer told him that the poor
      blue snake with black stripes completely froze, and the entire body
      turned a shade whiter. Obviously, Lucius assumed that Salazar was
      the older Tom Riddle whom he was looking for.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Oh, wait. Hoodwinked by Tom Riddles as Lucius is, mentally
      calling for dementors is indeed a cunning idea, at least, a good
      idea against the "evil" older Tom Riddle.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar accessed Hogwarts wards, partially activated the ban on
      dementors installed after Lord Foul's attempt to use them in his
      attack, and called again, "<em class="calibre8">Come forward, Luciuss. Those dirty
      creaturess are banned from entering, but a clever thought if ussed
      elssewhere.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The blue snake began to crawl reluctantly toward the only exit,
      while Salazar pondered how he should test Lucius' worthiness. He
      knew Lucius was weak in magic, but that could be a result of the
      Unbreakable Vow they had talked about. As for resourcefulness,
      Lucius definitely possessed some basic cunning, so he needed to use
      some advanced techniques to probe for higher level
      intelligence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just before entering the empty classroom, the blue snake
      animagus suddenly rushed and leapt toward the exit, twisting into
      human form the moment he entered the empty classroom, while a
      number of defensive magical items were triggered at the same
      time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a wave of wand, all the magical trinkets winked out, and
      the temporary wand in the starting gesture of a stunning hex also
      flew out from Lucius' hand. Salazar waved his wand again, the blond
      man was fully binded, including his opening mouth and twitching
      fingers that were undoubtedly trying to activate something.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar showed himself in front of Lucius, and appraised the man
      with long white mane. He found more traces of his grandson-in-law
      in this grown man's features, for the first Draco was just a few
      years younger than this Lucius when Salazar left. The garments on
      the white-faced Lucius looked no less expensive than little Draco,
      his nails and hair were well-cared for, which meant Lucius was
      doing relatively alright as a prisoner, another proof of his
      cunning. The blue-grey eyes behind the glasses were appraising
      Salazar as well, which meant he hadn't given up while facing a much
      stronger unknown wizard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Do not confusse me with any lessser wizardss,
      Luciuss.</em>" Salazar said matter-of-factly. "<em class="calibre8">I am the
      Greatesst of Hogwartss Four, and the King of Sserpent. I am
      Ssalazar Sslytherin.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius' eyes widened as expected, and from a quickly suppressed
      sign of suspicion, he didn't fully believe Salazar just because
      Salazar stated his identity in Parseltongue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Of course, I wouldn't believe others just because they said
      something in Parseltongue, because people can be memory charmed to
      believe that they are someone else. However, Lucius needs to train
      his face better, or is he playing at a level higher?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Before I let you sspeak, no, I do not dessire to be
      involved in the current war fought by my desscendantss.</em>"
      Salazar would rather prefer that his descendants were at peace with
      each other, but he didn't say that he wouldn't get involved in the
      war, did he?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Salazar threw Lucius a question that the blond man clearly
      didn't expect. "<em class="calibre8">How large iss the world?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Although Salazar was most interested in how to get to the Stone,
      he was indeed quite interested in the question he asked. Nagini had
      mentioned that quite some Interdicted spells Tom Riddle learnt were
      from an island nation "<em class="calibre8">where the ssun rissess</em>", which was
      further away than India or China. The furthest point Salazar had
      traveled was Isfahan in Persia, and he was quite interested in what
      existed in the world unknown to him, especially, Atlantis.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With another wave of wand, Lucius was able to speak. The blond
      man answered, "<em class="calibre8">Earth iss ball-sshaped, around eight-thoussand
      miless in diameter. There iss the New Continent, wesst of Atlantic
      Ocean -</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-Later wizards found Atlantis?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar had to suppress himself from calling out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Many wizardss thought it wass Atlantiss when firsst found,
      but it wass not the casse.</em> " Lucius continued his answer,
      "<em class="calibre8">The ssame happened when another continent ssoutheasst of
      Assia, in the ssouthern hemissphere, wass found. Not Atlantiss.
      Many new isslandss were found, no Atlantiss.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar was quite disappointed that Atlantis was not found.
      However, the way Lucius worded his answer did create some dramatic
      effects in Salazar's heart, if not on his face. This meant Lucius
      was trying to gain some upper-hand while providing new information,
      which was both annoying and somewhat to Salazar's taste.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Powerful magic in other partss of the world wass found,
      though.</em>" Lucius continued. "<em class="calibre8">I heard ssome wizardss in
      China reach magical agreements with powerful magical animalss, such
      ass ssnakess, foxess, and weasselss, and ssome really powerful
      magical animalss can adopt human formss.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Hmm, it seems my basilisk idea is not that unique. By the
      way, are those "powerful magical animals" really animals, or are
      they powerful wizards with long-lived animagus forms? I have
      speculated the reason I am still relatively agile at this age,
      while many powerful wizards are no longer light-footed at around
      one hundred and forty, is my animagus form, which is a long-lived
      basilisk. Well, if I choose to spend most of my time as a basilisk,
      can I live a thousand years?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-By the way, Lucius can see where my question actually
      directs to. Good.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">And in -</em>" Lucius paused, as if searching for
      words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">You can usse Latin.</em>" Salazar realized that
      Parseltongue probably didn't contain the names of new found
      places.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Can I draw a world map firsst?</em>" Lucius grasped the
      chance, and asked. "<em class="calibre8">Sso I can exxplain better.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Cunning. Unfortunately for Lucius, I might have seen
      something from Giuliani's memory, but that small thing surely
      looked strange from his memory.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar reached into Giuliani's pouch, and mentally called for
      the neatly binded small book he saw from the dark wizard's memory.
      What flew into his hand was a book only the size of the hand of an
      adult, and the parchment of the book was better polished than the
      finest lamb parchment that Salazar had ever seen. Salazar flipped a
      few pages of that book, and saw some meticulously drew graphs, and
      one of the graphs reminded Salazar of the shape of the
      Mediterranean Sea, so it must be a collection of maps. The scripts
      in the book were written in something resembling Latin, and the
      letters were definitely not written by hand, for there were no
      dents beneath the ink.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">There are so many things that I don't know.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Salazar started to project the graphs in the small book
      onto the blackboard in the classroom, and asked Lucius to
      explain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As it turned out, the very first picture of the book was a world
      map. It took Salazar some time to understand the current
      cartography, and then Salazar was quite amazed by the vastness of
      the world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Unlike most ignorant wizards in his time, Salazar knew for sure
      that the earth was a very large ball, and the sun was orbiting the
      earth. Actually, a wizard just needed to apparate eastward or
      westward to realize that the sun rose at different times at
      different locations; and one just needed to apparate northward or
      southward to observe the different angles of the sun at noon time.
      Moreover, Rowena had done some complex calculations, and proved
      that both Venus and Mars orbited around the sun, and the sun and
      the moon orbited around the earth. Unfortunately, something quite
      earthly took away the life of the first astronomy teacher in
      Hogwarts before she could delineate how Jupiter traveled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now, it seemed that later wizards had explored the Earth
      extensively, and Salazar, who had considered himself
      widely-traveled, had only been to a small fraction of the world.
      There were China and India where Salazar knew of but had never
      traveled to, the rest of Africa to the south of the great desert,
      the islands named "Japan" where Tom Riddle learnt a lot of his
      powerful magic, and the huge new continents named "America" and
      "Australia".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">I have definitely made the right decision as to lock myself
      into the Mirror. I have so many new goals now.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Moreover, judging by how much the current wizards had
      improved the invention by Merlin's great-great granddaughter, could
      the current wizards have conquered the strong winds at great
      heights, and flown to the moon, the sun, and some stars? I would
      like to try.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">How about the sstarss?</em>" Salazar asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius became somewhat uneasy upon this question, and took in a
      deep breath before he answered, "<em class="calibre8">Muggless ssay there are one
      hundred thoussand million sstarss in our galaxxy, and thoussandss
      and millionss of galaxiess. Light needs to travel sseveral minutess
      to the ssun, and sseveral yearss to the nearesst starss.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Wait, Muggles? What do they have to do with the ancient and
      noble arts of astronomy?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Why did you quote Muggless' wordss about sstarss?</em>"
      Salazar hissed. He began to doubt Lucius' loyalty to the wizarding
      kind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">It iss posssible that Muggless know more about the sstarss
      and can predict fate of the sstarss better nowadayss.</em>" Lucius'
      face was as white as chalk as he answered, "<em class="calibre8">And according to a
      paper I jusst read yessterday, in -</em> " Lucius changed into
      vernacular, said "American Mage", then changed back to
      Parseltongue, "<em class="calibre8">The Muggless have ssomething called -</em>",
      vernacular again, "nuclear weapon".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius' lips twitched slightly before he spoke the last part, as
      if he was sure he would be killed the next second. "<em class="calibre8">It iss
      ssaid to have something to do with why the ssun and sstarss sshine.
      The way it workss ressembless ritualss, as it sacrificess masss and
      leadss to huge explossion that destroyss citiess
      insstantly.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar wasn't a good tempered man, but he had never killed any
      messenger who brought him bad news. Moreover, the bad news spoken
      in Parseltongue was simply too astonishing to Salazar.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Godric had been the holder of Line of Merlin Unbroken, therefore
      he had known a lot of Merlin's secrets. Soon after Hogwarts was
      built, Godric had gathered Salazar, Rowena, and Helga, and solemnly
      told them that there was a great danger that he only had some vague
      ideas of, and the other three needed to know of this danger for the
      preservation of all wizarding kind. It was a ritual that sacrificed
      mass, or "atomon", as defined by some ancient wizard in Greece. The
      ritual was only mentioned in some scratched notes by Merlin, and
      Merlin had to throw away his time and magic to build the Most
      Ancient Hall, so that the wizarding kind to have a chance to
      survive in case such ritual was ever invoked. Therefore, in case
      such unspeakable ritual was ever used against Hogwarts, they were
      not to resist, but to try to bring as many students as possible to
      the Most Ancient Hall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">It can't possibly be the one that I am thinking of. But
      huge explosion that destroys cities, that does sound like what
      Godric warned us of.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">How doess it compared to Greek Fire?</em>" Salazar asked
      about the most powerful weapon that Muggles of his days could use -
      made by wizards, of course, and it was beyond Salazar's
      understanding as why wizards in Constantinople made them usable by
      Muggles.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius seemed to need a second to remember what "Greek Fire"
      was, and answered. "<em class="calibre8">Much more powerful than Greek Fire. It iss
      reported that one mass-sacrificial weapon killed more than one
      hundred thousand Muggless about fifty yearss ago, and after two
      ssuch weaponss were ussed, a Muggle nation of seventy million
      people ssurrendered.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A Muggle nation of seventy million people - that, that was
      almost beyond Salazar's imagination.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Was it somewhere around the total population of Roman
      Empire at the peak of its height? But if weapons that could invoke
      the ritual Godric warned us about were used, the only sensible
      action for a nation was to surrender.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar briefly imagined the surrender of Roman Empire at the
      height of its glory, and he had to admit it to himself that
      although he had laughed at the pathetic Muggle rulers of the
      barbaric England, ruling a Muggle nation such as Roman Empire was
      pretty attractive. Actually, Salazar knew that several emperors of
      the Roman Empires were rumored to be wizards before the Roman
      Empire chose the wizard-persecuting Christianity as its official
      religion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">However, if the power to let such a great nation surrender
      was controlled by some Muggle nation, the logical question
      is…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Iss the Muggle world ruled by one nation now?</em>" Salazar
      suppressed his true question, which was - "<em class="calibre8">Are we sslavess of
      Muggless?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To Salazar's relief and confusion, Lucius was quickly answered,
      "<em class="calibre8">No, there are more than one hundred Muggle countriess in the
      world, and about half a dozen Muggle countriess used to have the
      weapon.</em>" Then the blond man added, "<em class="calibre8">However, one of the
      weapon-wielding countriess collapssed two yearss ago, and a dozen
      ssmaller nationss arose from itss corpsse. Sseveruss, my sson
      Draco'ss godfather, planss to go there, to bribe officialss there
      to reveal their ssecretss.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Salazar realized the horrifying implication.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">About twenty Muggle countries with weapons that invoke mass
      sacrifice rituals! What is worse, they are definitely not friends
      with each other, since otherwise there would only be one nation in
      the world.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar almost shuddered. Then he remembered Greek Fire, and the
      stupid wizards who made Greek Fire usable by Muggles. "<em class="calibre8">How?
      When? Which wizard wass sstupid enough to let Muggless know of
      ssuch ritualss?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius was first genuinely confused by Salazar's questions, then
      dawning apprehension and open hatred appeared on his face. "<em class="calibre8">I
      am not certain who the traitor wass. I know the weapon wass firsst
      ussed by Muggless about fifty yearss ago, when there wass a war in
      both the Muggle and the wizarding worldss.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, Lucius briefly explained the war with Grindelwald in
      Parseltongue with occasional vernacular for concepts not included
      in Parseltongue. Lucius explained Grindelwald's rise to power, the
      rumor that Grindelwald used Muggle sacrifices supplied by his
      Muggle allies to make himself invincible, how wizards from Great
      Britain, the United States of America, the Soviet Union, and a
      number of other countries joined forces against German, Italian and
      Japanese wizards, and how Albus Dumbledore defeated Grindelwald
      after Muggle Germany was defeated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">A few dayss after hiss victory, the Muggle-loving former
      transfiguration teacher became sschoolmasster, and holder of the
      Line of Merlin Unbroken. If my memory iss correct, the Muggle
      country acrosss Atlantic ussed the ritual-weapon on its enemy in
      Far Easst sseveral monthss after that.</em>" For a moment, Lucius'
      face contorted with hatred and disgust, then he set his face,
      adding slowly, "<em class="calibre8">Wizardss acrosss the Atlantic and in Easstern
      Europe allied with Muggless even after the war. Sseveruss ssaid
      Muggle nationss and wizardss there ussed mudbloodss to do magical
      tesstss, and that wass why many powerful lordss emerged during the
      passt sseveral decadess.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Holder of Line of Merlin Unbroken, and a Muggle-loving
      fool, who might have taught Muggles the insanely powerful ritual
      that Merlin himself needed to sacrifice his life and magic to guard
      against.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">This horrifying combination rendered Salazar completely
      speechless, and he was also outrageous toward the wizard named
      "Albus Dumbledore", who according to Lucius, was locked in
      Time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In his full-fledged fury, Salazar's radiating magic might have
      gone wild, for the dusty decks and empty chairs began to shake, and
      Lucius' face twitched in horror. Salazar realized this, took in a
      deep breath, and calmed down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">What has happened is already so. I need to figure out how
      to take the weapons away from Muggles and most wizards.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">By the way, why did Lucius mention "German wizards",
      "Italian wizards", and "British wizards", as if wizards belong to
      certain Muggle countries? If that is the case, I need to select my
      helpers carefully if I want to steal the weapons from Muggles. If I
      want to steal the ritual-weapon from British Muggles, I may have to
      turn to wizards in other countries.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar pondered the implications, and asked, "<em class="calibre8">Iss allying
      with Muggless common nowadayss? Why do current wizardss identify
      themsselvess with Muggle countriess?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Lucius started a long recounting of history, on how the
      Christian and Islamic Muggles had persecuted wizarding kind, how
      traitors in the International Confederation of Wizards had
      conspired with some secular Muggle governments so that secular
      Muggle powers could make the religious power look ridiculous, how
      the Malfoys had fought against the passing of <em class="calibre8">The International
      Statute of Wizarding Secrecy,</em> how the Wizarding Counsel in
      Britain had grasped more and more power while imposing the
      <em class="calibre8">Statute of Secrecy</em> onto the free-spirited wizarding kind,
      how the good-for-nothing wizards in Wizarding Counsel in Britain -
      and its equivalents elsewhere - had regular coordination with the
      very high-tops of the Muggle governments, and how these factors led
      to the formation of Ministries of Magic or their equivalents in
      every major Muggle country.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">The Ministry hass extended its power to where it doess not
      belong, - they have even gone to the ridiculouss length as to
      determine the thicknesss of cauldronss. Now, about sseventy percent
      of the total working adultss in Wizarding Britain have ssomething
      to do with the Ministry of Magic.</em>" Lucius concluded his
      recount on recent history with this shocking remark.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar listened and listened. He could understand the motives
      of some wizards in each step, but the stupidity in its entirety was
      beyond his wildest imagination.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">How could wizards as a whole accept something more
      oppressive than the Muggle kings? What is worse, for every three
      wizards who do actual work, seven other wizards just join the
      "Ministry of Magic", and rob their products? How could a society be
      stable? In the name of Atlantis, I need to overthrow this
      ridiculous thing and form a better kind of ruling order. But
      then…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">No wizardss had tried to overthrow this farcce?</em>"
      Salazar asked incredulously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To this question, Lucius smiled bitterly, and described the rise
      and fall of Tom Riddle, whose was also known as You-Know-Who, and
      Lord Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From Lucius' perspective, the rise of Tom Riddle made quite some
      sense to Salazar - Tom Riddle claimed that the decline in magic was
      caused by the influx of mudbloods and thinning of wizarding blood;
      and not to mention that the level of corruption and bureaucracy in
      the Ministry of Magic were astonishing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius explained that the taxes imposed on people who did real
      work were so high that many good old families were driven out of
      business, and international commerce declined every year. Then, of
      course, good purebloods who were irked by the Muggle-loving
      propaganda enforced by the Ministry, annoyed by the ridiculous
      regulations made up by the good-for-nothing officials, and stolen
      from by the hefty taxes imposed by the Ministry, joined Tom Riddle
      who called himself "Lord Voldemort" in his bid against the
      Ministry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">In one casse, they impossed a sixty percent import taxx on
      wine and beer, because the ssmall plebeian brewerss, a lot of them
      mudbloodss and Muggle-loverss, yearned it. As a result, mosst
      European countriess impossed a sixty percent import taxx on wine
      and beer produced in Britain.</em>" Lucius seemed to have tried to
      stop himself, but something slipped out, maybe intentionally.
      "<em class="calibre8">The middle-end Malfoy elf-made drinkss losst about seventy
      percent of businesss in the Continent for thiss reasson. How could
      I not be attracted by Riddle'ss ideass?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Oh, Malfoys.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a headache, Salazar remembered how efficient a lieutenant
      Armand had been when it had come to logistic matters, and how the
      first Draco could correctly convert between Galleons and Sickles
      before he could properly speak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar had to silently take in a breath, and reminded himself
      why he had agreed to Draco and Angitia's marriage: <em class="calibre8">the snake
      animagus had stated in Parseltongue that he valued family more than
      money, and he wholeheartedly agreed with Salazar's idea on
      blood-purity.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">On the other hand, Tom Riddle's reasons against the
      Ministry of Magic and Lucius' alliance with him were indeed
      reasonable. Unfortunately for Lucius, I guess the Tom Riddles
      believed in nothing in particular.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, Lucius recounted the incredibly clever and efficient
      tactics used by You-Know-Who, and some of the confusing orders that
      Lucius had weaseled out of. "<em class="calibre8">He ordered uss to kill all the
      Monroes including the house-elvess, except David, the sstrongesst.
      The old Lady Monroe wass againsst us, but her two ssonss were
      actually ssympathetic toward our causse. If we only asssasssinated
      the old woman, making it look like a natural death from old age, we
      could've had a noble housse on our sside, and let David fight with
      hiss father and uncle. Why terminate a pureblood old housse?Or if
      the Monroess had to be sacrificed to sserve as an example, why did
      he want to leave the sstrongesst unsscathed?</em> "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar knew the answer the instant he heard about the story:
      <em class="calibre8">it was because this "David Monroe" was actually another Tom
      Riddle.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">This is completely insane. The Muggles have weapons with
      the power of mass sacrifice, and the most powerful wizard of the
      last two centuries has a hobby of splitting himself and fighting
      with himself. I wonder why the world is still largely intact at
      this moment.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar wasn't surprised at all when Lucius mentioned a few
      occasions when Tom Riddle had refused to take advice from Lucius
      and others that might have led to an instant victory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius recounted the loss of Narcissa, his former lord's cold
      laugh and refusal for revenge. "<em class="calibre8">I wass heart-broken, angry,
      confused, and afraid. I realized that he wouldn't look after any of
      our familiess in casse we died for the causse, and I wass the only
      protection that Draco had. I tried to sstay home ass much ass
      posssible, and kept Draco in my armss every night. The burn markss
      in my bedroom were a consstant reminder of my misstake and what it
      had cost me.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar saw the glistening in Lucius' eyes, and knew the game
      Lucius was trying to play now - the use of real emotions, an
      advanced technique - yet it did gain a few points for Lucius, and
      it increased Salazar's loathing toward Tom Riddle, for this Tom
      Riddle was completely unworthy as a leader of any kind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before Salazar grew any impatience toward the sentimental
      things, Lucius began to describe the disappearance of the Dark Lord
      on the Halloween of 1981, and glossed over the ten years before
      Draco met Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">After what sseemed like the mudblood girl had tried to kill
      Draco - now I ssusspect the Dark Lord framed her - I brought Draco
      home.</em>" Lucius' face was quite confused by this point.
      "<em class="calibre8">What I found shocked me. The-Boy-Who-Lived had talked Draco
      into believing outrageouss liess, such asss mudbloodss were no
      different from uss, yet I later got a feeling that he did thiss for
      good purposess, such as to deter Draco from doing thingss that
      could offend Muggless. He gave Draco bookss that depicted the power
      and knowledge of current Muggless, that Muggless had sent people to
      the moon, and Muggle'ss advanced knowledge in asstronomy.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">And that was why Lucius mentioned "Muggles" in the first
      place, and all the later talks about the ritual-weapon. He wanted
      to deter me from killing Muggles before knowing what they are
      capable of.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-Well, what Lucius did was the right thing to do. I might
      have killed Muggles unwittingly if I did not know, and my actions
      might lead to disasters for the wizarding kind. To be fair, Lucius
      did this with the clear knowledge that I despise Muggles and
      mudbloods, and he might have anticipated punishment for bringing
      the bad news. Luckily for him, I am better than that.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar nodded to Lucius, encouraging him to speak on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius delineated the meeting between the Malfoys and Harry
      Potter in Gringotts, and, more importantly, the night one year
      before, especially the Unbreakable Vow that had took much of his
      magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">The contentss of the Vow are ass followss: 'I vow that I
      sshall not by any act of mine destroy the world. I shall take no
      chances in not destroying the world. If my hand iss forced, I may
      take the coursse of lessser desstruction over greater desstruction
      unlesss it sseems to me that thiss Vow itsself leadss to the
      world's end, and the friend in whom I have confided honesstly
      agreess that thiss iss sso. By my own free will, sso sshall it
      be.'</em>" Lucius recounted the exact words with a white face, as
      if both horrified by the implication of the Unbreakable Vow, and
      missing his magic lost in it. He took in a deep breath, "<em class="calibre8">Later,
      the Dark Lord's wordss in Parsseltongue stated that he wass
      convinced that there wass a Prophecy that if thingss around that
      boy went wrong, he might desstroy the world. And the Dark Lord and
      the Boy-Who-Lived discussed in Parsseltongue about the ability of
      the boy to desstroy the world, and both believed the boy wass
      capable of ssuch thingss, and the boy threatened the Dark Lord in
      Parsseltongue with huge explosionss that could kill all of uss, and
      he could accept no lesss than the Dark Lord'ss 'promisse to treat
      nationss kindly under your rule'. Then, I ssaw my headless body
      dropping to the ground, and I died, perhaps alongsside thirty-five
      other Death Eaterss.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar had to slow down to absorb the implications of this, and
      Lucius promptly stopped talking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">The older Tom Riddle believed that there was a Prophecy
      that the younger one might destroy the world, and both believed the
      younger one was capable of it. For whatever reason, the younger one
      truly believed that he wanted nice things for the world.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What a delight!</em> Salazar thought sarcastically.
      <em class="calibre8">First, my most powerful descendant is insane; and second, the
      world might be destroyed by one version of him. I need to figure
      out what happened, and then literally save the world from
      destruction.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-Seeing it from this point of view, I can understand why
      Lucius is so willing to cooperate in the younger Tom Riddle's
      plots, because Lucius doesn't want to destroy the world. Moreover,
      Lucius might have actually saved the world from my potential
      mistakes. I need to reward him, but I can't free him from the Tom
      Riddles immediately, for that might complicate matters.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar sized Lucius up again, and said, "<em class="calibre8">You have truly
      done well, Lucius, descendant of Draco and Angitia.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius seemed to be surprised by Salazar's praise, and then his
      eyes dilated and his lips trembled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Oh, for the sake of Atlantis, what have you done to your
      subordinates, Tom Riddle!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar was greatly annoyed by Lucius' expectation of death, and
      added another account of crime to Tom Riddle. "<em class="calibre8">I mean you no
      harm.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Lucius calmed down, or appeared to, Salazar reached into one
      of his pouches, obtained Rowena's Diadem, and put it onto the
      ground in front of Lucius. "<em class="calibre8">I want your help to cleanse the
      dirt of death magic on Rowena's Diadem. And -</em>" Salazar reached
      into his other pouch, and retrieved an oak wand from his hair-wand
      collections, "<em class="calibre8">Thiss iss wand made from Armand'ss hair, that I
      occasionally usse. You should be able to usse it.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar threw the wand with a core of Armand's hair onto the
      ground in front of Lucius, waved his own wand, and freed Lucius
      from his magical binding. "<em class="calibre8">Usse the improved Guardian Charm on
      the Diadem.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">I need to observe for myself on how Lucius uses it, in case
      he knows more about it from the vernacular instructions Severus
      gave.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The blond man slowly stretched his limbs, being careful not to
      cause any misunderstandings, gingerly picked up the oak wand, and
      cast. "Expecto Patronum!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To Salazar's slight dismay, a white ball no brighter than
      Salazar's own improved Patronus formed from Lucius' wand tip.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Lucius probably has the same level of understanding of the
      charm as I do.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">However, the advanced Patronus did seem to have life magic in
      it. As the residue of death magic on the Diadem was slowly removed,
      the sapphire and amber on the Diadem began to shine.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar pondered further on the improved Patronus, and the new
      shielding charm that had been circling at the back of his mind for
      several hours. "<em class="calibre8">I shall need your help in tessting one of my
      newesst inventionss. Afterwardss, you may keep some hintss about
      thiss charm. - By the way, keep practissing powerful magic, for you
      are sstill young, and raw magical power can grow until you are
      one-hundred years old.</em>"</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
