<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival - Revival Chapter 6 Lucius Malofy, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s6" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 6: Lucius Malofy</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <p class="calibre6">11:25 pm, June 18th, 1993</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius Malfoy woke up in a jolt. He opened his eyes, and saw a
      smirking Severus Snape towering over him. He looked around
      haltingly at the obelisks and farmland graveyard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius remembered being forced to be the binder of the
      Unbreakable Vow, and pointing his wand at the Boy-Who-Lived, whom
      the Dark Lord seriously believed might destroy the world. Then the
      Dark Lord and the Potter boy had had quite an interesting
      conversation in Parseltongue, where apparently none of them
      considered the possibility that someone else might understand that
      language as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If Lucius did not feel so upset about losing much of his magic,
      he might have some sharp remarks on the arrogance of both the
      Potter boy and the Dark Lord.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But as Lucius had listened to the hisses, he had found that what
      costed most of his magic was not some bad joke on the Dark Lord's
      part. Both natural Parselmouths had honestly believed that Harry
      Potter might really bring an end to this world, possibly using
      muggle science.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius knew something about muggle science, like the book that
      Harry Potter lent Draco with pictures of muggles on the moon. When
      the news that Draco almost died from the blood-cooling charm
      arrived, Lucius almost went mad. He remembered the horror when he
      came home and found all his house elves stunned and oblivated, as
      he ran and called for Narcissa, as he found nothing but burning
      marks in their bedroom. If it were not for the crying Draco in the
      cradle, he might have went mad that day. It was like that nightmare
      all over again. But his boy was OK, and was at home.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">However, Lucius did need to know what happened at Hogwarts. And
      his boy, who once told him everything, refused to really talk. He
      knew this was a sign of growing up, but he could not risk losing
      Draco and not knowing. With broken heart, he administered Draco
      three drops of Veritaserum. And Draco talked, and talked. Compared
      to what Draco had said, the ravings of lunatics in St. Mungos made
      much more sense. How could muggles become more powerful than
      wizards? How could they arrive at the Moon where no wizard had ever
      landed, using "science"? And blood - according to some weird muggle
      theory, there was no difference between a pureblood and a
      muggleborn? All because of how many wizarding children squib
      couples had? How could that be true? It was a widely known fact
      that muggleborn couples littered more squibs. And as for squibs
      giving birth to wizarding kids, who knew whether the filthy female
      squibs had cheated on their useless squib husbands? Stupid wizards
      who did not mind producing bastards were still much better than
      squibs. When Lucius pointed those out to his son, Draco was quite
      shocked. Lucius sighed: a clever boy as Draco was, he was still too
      young and gullible, and he did not fully understand the adults'
      world yet. Yet, although the flaw in the Boy-Who-Lived's blood
      theory brought Lucius some comfort, the whole moon thing still
      seemed to be true.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius glanced at the moon uncomfortably.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then the Boy-Who-Lived threatened the Dark Lord with a
      massive explosion that could kill everyone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius was confused, but guessed it might have some moon thing
      in it. The pictures on that devilish book Harry used to seduce
      Draco away from him did show huge fire coming from the end of a
      rocket…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Lucius' world swirled and he thought he saw his own headless
      body fell to the ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then everything went dark.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dark until this moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius pushed himself up to a seating position, one hand
      instinctively went to check his neck, the other fumbled for his
      wand and failed. As he looked around, and saw himself on an altar
      that looked quite similar to what his master had created, and it
      was in a graveyard much smaller than the place he lost
      consciousness, and there was also the smirking black-haired man,
      whom Lucius trusted slightly above average. Lucius had no choice
      but to ask: "Severus, my friend, what happened?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus answered in his broken Parseltongue: "<em class="calibre8">You d-died,
      and I rev...revived you.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just as Lucius' brain went blank with the shocking news, Severus
      waved his wand, and said: "Tempus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"11:26 pm, June 18th, 1993" appeared in front of Lucius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius wanted to cast the time revealing charm himself to
      verify, but found that the once simple charm that he could cast
      without a wand or a word when he was half asleep failed on him. He
      had to concentrate and cast again: "Tempus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"11:26 pm, June 18th, 1993" popped up again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius swallowed down the hard news, and then realized something
      worse than his own death: Draco had been an orphan for more than a
      year. Mr. Macnair, Draco's godfather, was torn into pieces in his
      open rebellion against the Dark Lord. And Mr. Avery, Draco's
      fallback godfather...was probably dead as well. And his boy had
      been a toy for Lord Potter to try his brainwash techniques for more
      than a year now, that was, if he was lucky. Otherwise…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius did not really want to think what might have happened
      otherwise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As if reading Lucius' mind through his perfect occlumency
      barrier, the towering black-haired wizard hissed: "<em class="calibre8">No v-worry.
      Nar-cisssa isss alive, with Draco now.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius' mind went blank again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Severus began to recount the story on Narcissa from the
      <em class="calibre8">Daily Prophet</em> in human language, rejoice and relief almost
      overwhelmed Lucius. Lucius knew that Narcissa's death was
      Dumbledore's fault as well as his own. He had brought danger home,
      he had blindly trusted the ancient wards in Malfoy manor, and he
      had failed to protect Narcissa. He had left the burning marks in
      their bedroom as a reminder of both his hatred towards Dumbledore
      and of his own stupidity. Now knowing that Narcissa was obliviated,
      and was sent to live in Australia as a muggle, though his brain
      could generate hundreds of ways how this could be used against
      House Malfoy, Lucius still could not suppress his gratitude towards
      Dumbledore and the Boy-Who-Lived.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then there come another big question: why did Severus revive
      him? True, Severus had been his ally, and they probably trusted
      each other slightly more than average. But why such trouble? Any
      similar reason as why the Dark Lord revived the Granger girl?
      Prophecy or something?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even though he probably would not get a true answer, Lucius had
      to ask: "Severus, my dearest friend, why did you resurrect me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius deliberately asked in human language, so that his savior
      with a wand could choose freely whether to answer it in truth or
      not.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To his shock, Severus answered in Parseltongue: "<em class="calibre8">P…Pl…Prefer
      you to li-live than die.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius had no idea Severus treasured their "friendship" so much,
      or at least, to the extent that the black-haired man could honestly
      say that he preferred Lucius alive. Whatever the other man's hidden
      motives were, Lucius knew he needed to be really grateful. Plus,
      the other wizard was much stronger than he was now, and had a wand
      at hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius knew the ways to thank someone who had just saved your
      life from the brim of death, but he had no idea how to thank a
      possible true friend who revived you more than a year after you
      died. And since he had been dead for quite some time, Lucius
      guessed he no longer had a lot of resources and powers he once
      wielded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">True friendship, is that what Severus desired? I guess I
      can offer him that, at least to the extent of my friendship with
      Walden Macnair. But friendship alone seems too empty and vague.
      This half-blood's eyes did light up when he saw gold. That I think
      I still have some. And he may desire glory and fame, I have heard
      him talked about Order of Merlin once or twice. Giving him an Order
      of Merlin was no trouble at all before I died, but now it may
      require some serious plotting. Well, perhaps only money for now,
      and an Order of Merlin, First Class later as a surprised
      gift.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius was no fool. He knew he had dangerous enemies, and had
      planned for Draco accordingly. He had bought properties in other
      parts of the world, and had set up some secret vaults in Gringotts'
      oversea branches. Some of the Malfoy wealth would be available to
      Draco upon Lucius' death, some would only be known to Draco as he
      came of age, and some would go to Draco's vault in a monthly basis.
      Lucius quickly recounted the contents of the secret vaults that
      Draco didn't know yet, and decided the Mexico City one, which had
      one hundred thousand galleons, sounded too much like an insult to
      people in Dumbledore's faction (which Severus had apparently
      convinced the Boy-Who-Lived that he was in), and the Rome one,
      which contained something he did not want Severus to know. So, the
      Tokyo vault.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius made sure shock and gratitude was shown on his face and
      eyes, and hissed: "<em class="calibre8">Sseveruss, there iss no word that I can
      desscribe my gratitude toward you. You are my ssavior and true
      friend. Noble and Most Ancient House or not, House Malfoy
      recognizess itss life debt to you. I know money iss nothing
      compared to what you have done, but that can certainly make life a
      little bit eassier. I have a ssecret vault in Gringottss, in Tokyo,
      two hundred and fifty thousand galleonss in it, available to anyone
      with vault number and proper passsword. The vault number iss 122,
      and the passsword iss,</em>" Lucius paused, and then continued,
      "<em class="calibre8">Cor meum esst intra portass tuass, Draco Meum.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The black-haired wizard smirked upon hearing the vault part,
      then raised his brow slightly as he heard the probably too
      sentimental password and Draco's name.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Well, how can a half-blood possibly know what lies in the
      "my heart stays with you" statement?</em></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
