<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival - Revival Chapter 9 Return of Father, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s9" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 9: Return of Father</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">9:29 am, June 24th, 1993</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco Malfoy waited anxiously in the guest apparition room
      alongside with Mother.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The soon-to-be Lord Malfoy received a letter from Gringotts
      yesterday, stating that Severus Snape had an important message for
      him from Father, to be delivered upon the event that Draco came to
      magical majority and became Lord Malfoy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was indeed a thing Father would do, and all the secret
      marks on that letter were right.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Father was always prepared, even for his own death. After Father
      passed away, Draco received Father's will, one copy from his
      trusted lawyer and one copy from the goblins, in which Father left
      the majority of his properties to Draco, entrusted most businesses
      to professional managers, allocated money that would go to the
      Crabbes and Goyles on a monthly basis for them to continue their
      services to House Malfoy, made donations to St. Mungo's to ensure
      that all Malfoys would be treated in the best possible way, set up
      a fund for Hogwarts so that Draco would become a member of
      Hogwarts' Board of Governors after he graduated…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco wanted to cry each time he thought of Father's will, of
      how Father had planned for him. But he had lost more than eighty
      percent of what Father left him due to the heavy fines to the
      Ministry of Magic and restitutions to the victims of Father's
      crimes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Who knows if Father did the things people accused him of or
      not? And since all Death Eaters in Azkaban have went crazy from ten
      years' exposure to Dementors, there is only one talking mouth now:
      Igor Karkaroff! Maybe Karkaroff committed some of those crimes
      himself, and he put them on Father. Or, maybe the victims' family
      bribed Karkaroff to put everything on Father, so that they can
      claim restitutions from the rich Malfoys, instead of the knutless
      Travers.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco knew better than to argue with the relatives of the
      deceased. Instead, Mother and Draco set up a generous fund for the
      victims' families, and handed the fund management power to Mad-Eye
      Moody. He secretly hoped that the financial management job would
      tire out the old auror soon enough, so he would give fewer
      suspicious stares and try fewer legilimency attempts on Draco each
      time they came cross. But since youth was being mass produced in
      Hogwarts, this plot was highly unlikely to work. Of course, neither
      Mother nor Draco admitted knowing wrong-doing by Father that they
      knew of - which was true, since Father never mentioned any details
      - they just said they felt really sorry to the heavy losses of the
      families.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But losing all that money did not mean Draco and Mother were
      living in poverty. Father had managed Mother's dowry well over the
      years, and the value had grew more than ten folds. Draco suspected
      that Father had put some of the Malfoy wealth into Mother's dowry,
      so that if things went really wrong and all the Malfoy money got
      confiscated, Draco would still have something to rely on. Now
      Mother's dowry was legally returned to Mother, and the returns were
      more than enough for them to live a really comfortable life.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Additionally, there was money from undisclosed sources coming to
      Draco's personal vault each month. And Draco suspected there would
      be a lump sum of money becoming available to him upon his majority
      and his marriage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Father really had everything planned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Father had even arranged for Draco to receive a Firebolt as a
      present for his thirteenth birthday. When Draco received the
      fastest racing broomstick the day before he took his OWLS exams, he
      locked himself in his dorm and cried. In his pre-Hogwarts days,
      Draco had told Father that he wanted to become a seeker for
      Slytherin House, just as Father did when he was in Hogwarts. Draco
      had wanted to make Father proud. And Father had promised Draco the
      fastest racing broomstick if he became a seeker.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco didn't become a seeker, and Father wouldn't know that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Father wouldn't know that Draco was no longer the child who
      loved Quidditch and dreamed to become a seeker. Draco needed to
      keep a close eye on Harry so that the Boy-Who-Lived wouldn't cause
      an instantaneous wizarding war in his naivety. Draco knew that
      Harry did not tell him all the secrets Harry shared with Hermione,
      and Father would not like that. However, a lot of times, Draco was
      simply too tired to care, all the international politics were more
      than enough for him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Father wouldn't be happy if he knew Draco settled himself as the
      third person in the power structure. But if Harry and Hermione got
      married someday as everyone said they would, Draco wondered whether
      that would be counted as him serving the Lord and Lady of the
      Potter House, and therefore, second in command.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco cringed a bit on how disappointed Father would be if he
      knew Draco's condition, then directed his attention to the incoming
      messenger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco knew Snape and Father were allies, but he didn't think
      they were close. Yet, there were a lot of things that Draco didn't
      know about Father, and it was possible that there was a
      chain-of-command, and all the people before Snape were dead. And to
      be honest, Draco held some resentments at Snape for just abandoning
      Slytherin like that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, a popping sound came from behind the newly installed
      Thief's Downfall, and the former Head of Slytherin House appeared
      with no automatic anti-concealment alarms triggered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The black-haired man looked worse than when he was Head of
      Slytherin. His hair was as greasy and unkempt as he had not stood
      in a shower or used a comb for at least a week, his dark eyes were
      like slow boiling fire, the dark circles below his eyes were quite
      obvious, his cheek was shallow, and his black robes were spotty,
      and there were heavy smells of potion coming from him. And the man
      had a grey suitcase in his left hand, which might contain something
      that Father wanted Draco to have.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco wondered if an extra powerful imperius curse wouldn't be
      washed off by the Thief's Downfall, or if the man was simply
      annoyed at getting interrupted in his potion experiments and
      needing to deliver some message for a dead ally.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco instinctively grabbed Father's wand tighter in his hands,
      and Snape eyed Draco as if in approval of Draco's reaction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mother stepped forward, and raised her right hand while holding
      her wand in her left: "Severus, what a delight to meet you!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To Draco's slight relief, Snape put his wand into his left hand
      together with his suitcase, grabbed Mother's hand and made a hasty
      handshake. "Glad to meet you, too, Lady Malfoy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The greasy man didn't show any particular interest in the
      beautiful and rich widow, simply turned to Draco, sizing him up and
      down for a bit, then said: "Glad to meet you, Mr. Malfoy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco knew he was not Lord Malfoy yet, but that was why Snape
      was here, wasn't it? Draco smiled politely, and shook hands with
      the former Potions Master.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before Mother or Draco could say any more courtesy words, Snape
      cut in and said: "I would like a place with more privacy for what
      we are about to converse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mother and Draco exchanged a brief glance, and showed Snape to a
      private study.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Malfoy, It is my understanding that you would receive
      occlumency lessons before entering your magical majority." The man
      said without sitting down, as if in a hurry. "Not only up to the
      level that you can fool Veritaserum, but up to the level that you
      can block Alastor Moody."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remembering all the "trainings" he got from Moody, Draco
      answered: "Yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Mother said: "I guess I need to check lunch now. Severus, is
      there anything that you would like to try?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mother was an occlumens for sure, but she probably could not
      resist a powerful legilimens such as Moody or the Dark Lord, and
      that's probably one of the reasons why Father never talked of his
      Death Eater business with her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape mumbled: "Anything would be fine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After Mother left, Snape put his suitcase down, and casted spell
      after spell to the room. Some of the spells Draco had learnt from
      preparing for his OWLS, some Draco had seen Mr. Bester casting
      before occlumency lessons, and there were about half of them Draco
      had never heard of.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape turned and -</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A red-hot blade took its aim toward Draco's mind, and cutting
      through his layers of occlumency barriers like cutting through
      shear butter. If it were not for Moody's frequent trials, Draco
      might lose the grip of his final barrier and reveal all the nights
      that he cried for Father. But this was way worse than anything
      Moody had tried, worse than anything Draco had experienced, Draco
      was barely able to stand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The pain stopped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco staggered, realizing that he was facing the second most
      powerful Death Eater, alone. If this man wanted to attack…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape raised an eyebrow and said: "Mad-Eye didn't test you hard
      enough, did he?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco panted. He knew Snape should and would do this if he were
      going to talk about something really important, but doing THAT to
      -</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco heard an unbelievably familiar sound from Snape's
      suitcase: "Severus, I can't feel my legs!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape cursed and opened his suitcase. As Snape was running down
      the stairs of the suitcase, Draco could only see the back side of
      someone crawling on the floor of the study-sized room inside the
      suitcase. The long white hair, the neatly manicured yet powerful
      hands, the elegant feeling of the common robes from just being worn
      by that man, crawling in pain or not...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">No, it can't be…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">After Snape threw a number of spells on the figure on the
      ground, the pain that man had been in seemed to cease. Seeing that
      man no longer in immediate danger, Draco let out a breath that he
      hadn't quite realized he had held.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then the man on the ground raised his head, and turned toward
      Draco, panting, and breathed: "Draco, my boy, I am sorry to let you
      see me in such a state."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Father.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco could not believe his eyes; he could not believe his ears.
      Maybe, maybe Snape did something to him, maybe he didn't hold his
      mental barrier as he thought he did, or it was all a bad joke…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape spoke amidst casting healing charms: "You can verify his
      identity using your patronus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In so many sleepless nights that Draco had sent his patronus to
      find Father, and only receiving sad looks. But this time, Draco's
      snake patronus happily lept and jumped to the man on the
      ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco ran down the stairs regardless of the possible dangers. He
      just wanted to hug the man on the floor, and never to leave his
      side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Draco reached the bottom of the suitcase, Snape had finished
      casting spells, and shoved a red glass into the hand of the
      white-haired man on the ground. Snape swayed a bit, and then lent a
      hand to Father to help him up. "Hopefully, the next hour will be
      safe. I'll leave it to you and your son. Call me immediately if
      anything goes wrong."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco watched as Father grabbed Snape's hand and climbed up. It
      was strange to see Father in such a weakened state, and needing
      other's help to get up, like something perfect that had started to
      crack.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before Draco could figure out anything to say, Father spoke
      first: "Draco, I died a year ago. Severus, my dearest friend and
      brother in all but blood, revived me five days ago. Since then, he
      has saved my life at least thirty-eight times. There is no word
      that I can use to express my gratitude toward him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape stared at Father, as if being quite annoyed by Father's
      words, then shook his head and climbed up the stairs, murmuring:
      "Don't die in the next hour. I really need some sleep."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The moment Snape disappeared from the staircase and the suitcase
      door got closed, Father opened his arms, with some tears glistening
      in his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco knew this was the hint that he could abandon Malfoy
      demeanor now, in front of the very man who taught him how to behave
      like a Malfoy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco threw himself into Father's arms and began sobbing.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
