<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>32. Harry Potter and the cryptographic key - Harry Potter and the cryptographic key Chapter 2: Lord Voldemort for a better tomorrow, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="32. Harry Potter and the cryptographic key"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 2: Lord Voldemort for a better tomorrow</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Harry read. Mostly inside his trunk, wearing the cloak of
      invisibility on general principle, Harry read. He was <em class="calibre7">good</em>
      at reading - almost as good as Hermione. But there was too much,
      far too much to read, and it was too hard to filter effectively.
      Furthermore it was hard to interpret many books without the context
      of other books that he hadn't read yet, let along the immense base
      of magic theory that adult wizards took for granted, but which a
      first year student at Hogwarts just had not yet covered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Despite Professor McGonagall's astounding help in getting the
      books, Harry was not going to become a wise old wizard until he
      was, well, old. Hermione may not last that long. Hermione, who was
      genuinely good. It was so unfair that she should die, as the result
      of so much criminal incompetence. Incompetence of the magical
      healing profession at making defective first aid kits; incompetence
      of Dumbledore for not doing security properly; incompetence of
      himself for so many reasons; incompetence of the wizards of yore
      for not coming up with a decent resurrection spell; incompetence of
      the way that magic worked - it should make more sense.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were so many reasons for anger, and one important use for
      anger. Cold clarity took over him. He turned back to the books, and
      read for a minute. Better, but not good enough. Not nearly good
      enough. This was not going to work. He needed a different idea. He
      needed to quickly learn how magic works. Then he could take revenge
      on all the incompetence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Powerful magic was likely to be closer to the raw basic
      structure of magic. So it was still worth learning the contents of
      the books in the restricted section. But there were alternatives.
      Perhaps he should take Professor Quirrell up on his offer. Yes,
      right now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Leaving his cloak of invisibility on, Harry wound his way to
      Professor Quirrell's office. Taking it off, he knocked on the door.
      There was no weak hesitation while in the grip of the cold clarity.
      The professor was possibly an enemy, could definitely not be
      trusted. Yet the probability of an attack today was low, and
      telling others about what he was about to do was not a good
      idea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The door opened. Professor Quirrell was seated in a chair,
      reading a book that was propped a comfortable position in front of
      his face. Harry commenced without pleasantries. "You think I could
      perform a ritual powerful enough to destroy the Voyager probe. I
      wish you to teach me such magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do not know such powerful magic myself, and even if I did, it
      would hardly be wise for me to teach it to someone who conceivably
      may cast it himself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't intend to perform it, I just want to understand it. You
      promised to help me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And help you I will, to the extent of my ability, subject to
      general sanity limits. But I even if it were sane, I have no idea
      how to do so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Teach me the most powerful magic that I would be capable of
      understanding."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you mind what it does?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not really."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you have to be able to cast it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That would be helpful, but not essential."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you realise that you are currently utterly indistinguishable
      from a dark lord? You even have the speech cadence down pat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't care. I am going to make the world a better place. I
      have been pussyfooting around, avoiding questionable means. But
      that time is done. The end justifies the means."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All hail dark Lord Potter." Professor Quirrell bowed slightly,
      almost smirking. It didn't matter. He could have his fun. Harry
      waited coldly. "Let me make a prediction. I predict that in the
      reasonably near future, you, Harry Potter, will perform a powerful
      piece of black magic that most people would unquestionably consider
      the atrocity of the century."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How will I learn this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will teach you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What will I do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You will create Lord Voldemort."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What!" The surprise was sufficient to break though the hold of
      the cold clarity, and normal Harry returned. "Why would I want to
      do that," he asked in genuine bafflement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because the end justifies the means, and you want the end as it
      is good."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What good end could that produce?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let me start with a digression. Suppose you could change
      history. Suppose you could go back in time and stop Tom Riddle from
      becoming Lord Voldemort. Would you do it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can't do that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Most people would reply `of course'."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But they don't understand the nature of time travel and
      paradoxes. That couldn't be part of a stable cycle. If Lord
      Voldemort had not been around, history would be different. I would
      not be special. I may not have my dark side - I definitely would
      not be as driven and as pampered. I would have no reason, and
      probably no ability, to go back in time and stop Tom Riddle. It
      wouldn't be stable."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Possibly true."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course, I don't understand time travel well enough to be
      entirely certain. As a best case result it is possible that a
      stable universe would somehow eventuate as the fixed point of many
      universes. But that would be very different to this universe, which
      would cease to exist, effectively killing everyone in it. That
      would clearly be worse for everyone currently alive than having
      Lord Voldemort around."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I agree. So you wouldn't go back in time and stop Tom Riddle
      from becoming Lord Voldemort."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No." As Harry said it, he made a mental note to go and think
      about this very carefully, as the chain of logic seemed sound, but
      the result was unintuitive enough to justify self doubt. Also, in
      the absence of Lord Voldemort, there would be no super smart Harry
      to overcome death for all humanity - a great - no, the greatest
      possible - end in itself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"OK, let me talk about another hypothetical. Suppose you had the
      opportunity to do something that was massively evil, everything
      taken into account, including indirect ends. This is not a trick
      question. You wouldn't do it, would you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed, you would feel a strong moral obligation to not do so,
      correct."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Correct."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"OK, now suppose you that the action and inaction situations
      were flipped. Suppose you could do nothing, and a great evil would
      come to pass. Or you could do something, and the evil would be
      stopped. Many people think that that is different; that one has a
      moral obligation to avoid evil actions, but one does not have
      nearly as strong an obligation to personally thwart evil. But you
      hold yourself to a higher standard; you would see the situations as
      morally equivalent, especially if you were the only one who could
      prevent the evil."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Correct."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You would feel a strong moral obligation to do the action that
      stopped the evil."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry could see where this was going, and he didn't like it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Correct."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, do you see what comes next?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There is some action that I could take - and only I could do
      so. That action would be retrospectively responsible for turning
      Tom Riddle into Lord V. And I must do it, because if I did not do
      so, then this universe we are currently in would not be a stable
      timeline, and thus would cease to exist, along with all the human
      consciousness developed since his accession."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But there are lots of problems with that, even ignoring the big
      picture of whether my model of the meaning of time loops is
      correct. Why me? Why now? Why does Tom Riddle need something from
      me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good questions. I am sure you can come up with answers for
      them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry paused. "Why me? I guess I am special in two ways; firstly
      I am the boy who lived, and secondly I am smart, rational, and
      scientifically trained. The former seems more likely to be relevant
      given the nature of what is going on and the affinity I seem to
      have with Lord Voldemort. Oh. Oh."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry paused again, his mind racing with horrible thoughts. "It
      all makes sense. If I am responsible - at some point in the future
      - for creating you know who at some point in the past, then he
      could not have killed me back then, as that would cause a paradox.
      A time paradox trumps <em class="calibre7">everything</em>. The killing curse cannot
      be blocked, cannot be resisted by anything we know about. But a
      paradox is <em class="calibre7">impossible</em>. That has to be a fundamental law.
      The universe must contort itself to avoid a paradox."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That gave Harry a good idea. If he could make some situation
      where the only way to avoid paradox was for Harry's <em class="calibre7">Becomus
      Goddus</em> spell to work... then the universe would rearrange
      itself, probably in such a way that humans never evolved, or
      something like that. No. He had done a close enough experiment
      already, and the conclusion was literally "Don't mess with
      time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, and various other things could also make sense. Suppose I
      will have sent part of myself - say my dark side - back in time to
      fuse with Tom Riddle. That fragment would get stronger with
      practice, but could still have some affinity for me. When
      you-know-who tried to kill me, and instead burnt himself to a
      crisp, then the fragment could have partially jumped to me as it
      does with a Horcrux. Then, as I grew, it would grow itself again
      with practice. Looping around through time its strength would build
      up, and only stop – become stable - when the inefficiencies became
      big enough to counteract the experience gained over time. That
      would explain the power of Lord V - and of the dark side of my
      mind. It would also explain other affinities to Lord V, such as my
      ability to speak Parseltongue."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Not to mention some other things that Professor Quirrell may
      be unaware of and which Harry was not going to give detail on. His
      wand being related to Lord V's. Above all, the prophecy. That would
      clearly explain</em> "<em class="calibre7">THE DARK LORD WILL MARK HIM AS HIS EQUAL"
      in a very literal manner. Furthermore, "EITHER MUST DESTROY ALL BUT
      A REMNANT OF THE OTHER" would also be literally true, almost
      axiomatic. And the power of paradox avoidance could be "HE WILL
      HAVE POWER THE DARK LORD KNOWS NOT." Assuming that Tom Riddle did
      not know where his fragment came from, then he would have no reason
      to suspect that it was part of a time loop.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So," continued Harry after a pause. "So, it is plausible that
      I, Harry Potter the boy who lives, must do this to avoid the end of
      the world as I know it. Given that, why now? Ummm. That is not
      coming to me so easily. I guess it becomes harder as time goes on
      and the time span to be travelled increases, but that seems weak.
      Many years have passed; another is unlikely to make a huge
      difference."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How will you know how to cast the spell," asked Professor
      Quirrell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ummm. By the interdict of Merlin, someone would have to tell
      me. And who would be powerful enough to be able to do so, and would
      not baulk at the idea? Only you. And you..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I don't have a very high life expectancy. You don't have to
      pussy foot around. I am not foolish."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry slumped. It all was plausible. He had even come up with
      all the reasoning himself. Ah! He had been expertly played. If the
      con man can persuade you to come up with the idea, then you will
      start off convinced. No, Harry would have to take this under
      advisement. But just because he had been played didn't mean it was
      incorrect. And if his failure to act would increase the number of
      pruned time loops, he had a moral requirement to take it
      seriously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What would be left of me," Harry asked at last.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know for sure. I am sceptical about the existence of
      genuine altruism, so I probably think there will be less left than
      you do. On the other hand, your personality is very different from
      that of you know who. So subtracting just his components should
      leave a significant part of your personality. You will probably
      lose some intelligence. I know how important that is to you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I need to think about this," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," said the professor. "I needn't advise you not to
      discuss it with anyone. They will not treat it rationally. But
      before you go, I have a present for you. I think it will genuinely
      help you in your quest for a resurrection spell if anything can,
      and maybe make up for a potential loss of intelligence." Harry
      frowned. What could possibly make up for a loss of
      intelligence?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A drawer opened, and a sparkly piece of jewellery wafted towards
      Harry, who, after a moment's hesitation opened his hand and grasped
      it. He almost dropped it again; the feeling of doom associated with
      the professor seemed to pervade this item too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is it? It looks like a tiara. I can't say it is exactly my
      style."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, but it is so exactly your style," said the professor in a
      thoroughly amused tone. "You are clearly the true heir of
      Ravenclaw. And it is her diadem."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry almost dropped it again. "I've heard of that," he said in
      a trembling voice. "It is said to raise the wearer's wisdom. If
      true, that would be, like, the most powerful magic item in the
      world. Magic is all very well and good, but intelligence is what
      separates us from the apes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is indeed said to do so. And from my own experiments there
      is truth in the rumours. Although I think it raises intelligence
      rather than wisdom. I have made some inspired but ultimately unwise
      decisions while wearing it. Keep this in mind."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stared at the artefact in his hands. The time turner was
      fantastic, but it had just been relegated to second favourite
      gadget. What could compare to a helmet of wisdom +5? He was just
      about to put it on, when he paused. Maybe he should get it checked
      for hostile enchantments first. That would be wise. Dumbledore
      would be ideal, but may not be trustworthy. Professor McGonagall it
      would be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you! I mean. Wow! Umm. If you don't mind me asking. Where
      did you get it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did I steal it, you mean? Are you looking a gift horse in the
      mouth again? Don't bother to answer that. I found it in a hollow
      tree while I was in Albania. It appears the former owner, in her
      wisdom, managed to lose it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I should also warn you, Harry. I believe Lord Voldemort placed
      a Horcrux upon it. I don't believe it will affect you – I have
      removed the trap that would activate it, and it did not affect me.
      Besides, you are probably already infected, and thus have some
      level of immunity. But don't share it around – many of your friends
      are weak willed enough to be ensnared. It is unfortunately
      impractical to remove the Horcrux without destroying the
      diadem.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You should see your face Harry. You are currently thinking that
      I couldn't possibly say anything that would shock you more than the
      conversation so far. So I can't resist even though I know it is
      rude. Thank you for getting the house points system suspended. That
      was a necessary step in my plot to get both Ravenclaw and Slytherin
      to win the house cup simultaneously. Murdering Hermione was the
      simplest method to accomplish that. Oh, look at your face. I got
      you. I am kidding about that. Of course I am. Ask Draco if you are
      not absolutely sure. Now scram, and use your diadem. Think wise
      thoughts. Everything else I said today I was serious about."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry put on his invisibility coat and scrammed. He had the best
      toy in the world to play with. But first he was going to check on
      something with Draco.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco laughed at him. "Harry, Harry. You are so clever, and yet
      sometimes so spectacularly naïve. That would be a stupid plot. Even
      a play writer would be embarrassed by it. There are so many
      spectacularly bad potential downsides for such a plot, <em class="calibre7">and</em>
      the path to the desired outcome requires so much to fall the right
      way that no self-respecting Slytherin would consider it for a
      moment. It was a joke." Draco's smile vanished. "It was a joke in
      exceedingly bad taste."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry thought about power in a different way to most others.
      Harry's opinion of Draco would be enlarged by the truth in this
      case. In a small voice he would never reveal to anyone else, Draco
      added, "I miss her too." Then he put back on a wry smile. "Don't
      tell dad."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
