<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>32. Harry Potter and the cryptographic key - Harry Potter and the cryptographic key Chapter 4: A little experiment, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="32. Harry Potter and the cryptographic key"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s4" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 4: A little experiment</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Harry put down the thirtieth restricted book. With the diadem,
      he could read much faster, and remember much more. But it still
      wasn't going to be enough. It still took time to think about the
      implications, to think about the assumptions that the author had
      made implicitly. To think about how magic works. The books were
      primarily about how to do things, rather than how to work out how
      to do things. This wasn't helpful when most of the things were not
      ones he had any interest in actually doing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The fundamental problem, he thought, was that it just didn't
      make sense. Magic behaved like a story, not like a coherent basis
      for the fundamental properties of nature. Take the spell words.
      Despite their use of dead languages, they were really very
      twentieth century. They were an anachronism. They were what a
      well-educated kid designing them in a hurry would make up to sound
      plausible. But they had too much modern English implicit in them to
      be made up when magic was young. And given the interdict of Merlin,
      and his and Hermione's experiments in changing the words, they were
      not a modernization of older originals. They were the sorts of
      things that <em class="calibre7">Ron</em> would make up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry snorted. If he had designed magic, it would be done
      differently. Maybe not the words – they were not worth wasting time
      on. The edges of his mouth twitched up. If he had designed magic,
      he would have put a back door in. A backdoor that would allow him
      to take control of all the magic in the world, say by brandishing a
      key, and uttering the spell <em class="calibre7">Becomus Goddus</em>. And the key...
      the key would not be some exotic artefact, it would be...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knew what it would be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He paused. If it were possible for him to retrospectively create
      Lord Voldemort, then there were a couple of plausible reasons why
      he should be able to create the key.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It wouldn't take much time to check.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">How long would a key have to be to be unique in all universes?
      Harry remembered Dirac talking about some relevant things. The
      diadem even improved his memory for things he had read before
      wearing it. The biggest dimensionless numbers associated with the
      product of the age and size of the universe were of the order of
      ten to the power of a hundred and twenty. That's about four hundred
      bits. Add another hundred to wipe out coincidences. But there are
      an infinite number of universes possible through time loops. Maybe
      it is not infinite. Assume it is similar to the size of the
      universe. Double the number of bits to a thousand. Double it again
      to make up for messy back of the hand calculations. Double it
      another two times for unknowables, and to make it a nice round
      cube. Eight thousand bits.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at his father's rock, or at least the transfigured
      version of it on his ring. Harry caught himself. He shouldn't call
      the ring his. That was horrible. Disgusting even. An unintentional
      slip of the metaphorical tongue was worse than it appeared, as it
      could lead him to be careless and selfish. He shook himself and
      looked again at the gem that had distracted Dumbledore from the far
      more important ring. It would suffice. He removed the brown gem
      from the ring; it would never do to scratch the ring. Then Harry
      thought of a grid of eight thousand dots arranged in a cube twenty
      on a side. He transfigured the gem slightly, and after a minute's
      work a tiny version of the grid appeared inside the gem. It was a
      good start.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Incidentally, Harry noted that it would have taken him roughly
      five times as long to do such a fine transfiguration without the
      diadem.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now for the boring part. "Randomization device," he said to his
      pouch. Out came a galleon. Harry flipped it. Heads. He flipped it
      again. Heads again. Then tails, heads, tails, tails and heads
      again. He repeated this until he had eight thousand flips… it took
      about two hours. With the diadem on, he could remember them all. He
      took the diadem off for a minute. Then put it back on. He could
      remember the flips again. Perfect.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry visualized the cubic grid again, except this time he
      mapped the series of eight thousand flips onto the grid, one flip
      for each point. The points corresponding to a heads flip, he
      omitted from the grid. He now had four thousand and thirty seven
      points in a random pattern. It was a key; a key that only he knew.
      Barring time travel sending its details into the past, it was a key
      that with should have never been seen elsewhere in the universe. He
      transfigured his father's rock to include this pattern.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The gem shone fiercely. Harry fell down backwards in surprise.
      The diadem fell off. Instinctively Harry put it back on his head
      and looked at the key in awe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were three obvious possibilities, all with a tiny prior
      probability. But given the experimental evidence that the key had
      done something strange, one of them was probably true.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">First possibility. He, Harry James Potter-Evan-Verres, will have
      had created magic retrospectively, and tied a root access to this
      key.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Second possibility. The key was the key to someone else's
      creation, and the reason that Harry had determined the key was that
      the only stable time loop was one where the flips happened to work
      for Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Third possibility. Someone was playing a very good practical
      joke on Harry. Probably his sadistic future self.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some of the elation left him. The practical joke possibility
      almost certainly had the highest prior probability.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Time for test number two. Wishing he had a video camera to catch
      the possibly most important event in the history of the planet,
      Harry said "Becomus Goddus".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing happened for a moment. Then the gem beeped like a
      microwave oven and said, in Harry's smuggest voice, "User too evil
      error."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You bastard," he swore at himself. How did people ever put up
      with him?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, that was mild evidence against his second theory, and
      fairly strong support for the practical joke hypothesis. But if he
      had indeed created a backdoor into magic, he would have thought for
      a while about it, and maybe he would have put in a check for moral
      fitness. Forget the maybe, this was dangerous. Of course he would
      have done so. Sanity too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So now what? Should he try to become a better person? Was that
      the whole point of the practical joke? Maybe Dumbledore set the
      whole thing up in order to make Harry a better person. Call that
      hypothesis four. Suddenly Harry felt very cold. Hypothesis five.
      Professor Quirrell had set it up to persuade Harry to go through
      with the ritual he was suggesting. That had to be at least as
      likely as a practical joke from his future self.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Time to eliminate hypothesis three, anyway. Time to visit
      Professor McGonagall again. The gem was too potentially dangerous
      to transport; he transfigured it back to a perfect gem. It stopped
      glowing.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva opened the door after hearing a knock. Harry appeared in
      the empty corridor a moment later, taking off his invisibility
      cloak. "Don't tell me you have an even more powerful artefact you
      wish me to examine for interference from some dark lord," she
      welcomed him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ummm. Not exactly. I used to have it, but I destroyed it. It
      was too dangerous to carry. But I can easily make it again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what is it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I am not exactly sure. Possibly it is the key to the
      become god spell, or possibly it is a practical joke played on me
      by… ummm… someone brilliant and exceedingly annoying." Harry looked
      positively embarrassed at this point. "Or maybe it is something
      else."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And how did you come to have possession of this artefact?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry explained what he had done. His sentences made sense, and
      indeed it was a clear explanation of a set of actions. But it was
      missing an important prequel. "But what book told you to do this?
      And I thought you had promised to consult with me before doing any
      ritual from the restricted books."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, it wasn't from any of the books. It just seemed like an
      obvious thing to do. I mean if I had been the one who designed
      magic, this would have worked." He looked somewhat embarrassed at
      this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva was worried that something seriously wrong had happened
      to Harry's common sense. She wondered how to test it. The normal
      approach would be to ask the student some simple questions and see
      if the answers were normal. However, normal for Harry was hard to
      judge. Then she had an inspiration.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry. If I wanted to check that the diadem had not damaged
      your brain, and that your common sense still was running, what
      would be a good approach?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't approve of common sense," he relied loftily. "I have
      <em class="calibre7">uncommon</em> sense, and that is hard work. But seriously, let
      me demonstrate. It is a very simple transfiguration of a gem. If it
      works, then it demonstrates that I am at least a little sane.
      Sorry, that is not going to make you comfortable. The idea of using
      transfiguration as a test of sanity is like using a flaming brand
      to look inside a gunpowder barrel to see if it is empty."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That sounded normal for Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Actually, it would be a better test if I did it on something
      different. It should be the pattern rather than the material, and
      it makes it harder for someone else to interfere that way. Could
      you please, professor McGonagall, choose something other than a
      rock and transfigure it into a gem somewhat different to this
      one?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a glass on her desk. She tapped it with her wand, and
      it became an irregularly shaped blood red translucent gemstone.
      Harry then pointed his wand at it. Thousands of tiny imperfections
      appeared in the centre, and then the gem began to glow, and give
      off an aura of power greater than Minerva had ever seen before. She
      gasped in surprise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have so many questions about this," started Harry, "but one
      of the first is, how much power would it take to make this, if it
      were not some intrinsic property of the pattern but some externally
      imposed charm, done without us noticing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva studied it carefully for a couple of minutes. There was
      no doubt it was powerful, absurdly powerful. But it didn't seem to
      <em class="calibre7">do</em> anything. The enigmas in the headmaster's office at
      least had some clues to their function.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is truly powerful," she said at last. "I would be surprised
      if even Merlin would have the power to create it in front of us
      without us knowing. But then I am surprised at this thing's
      existence. Perhaps a mage with this could be more powerful than
      Merlin. You made it, for reasons I don't understand. What do
      <em class="calibre7">you</em> think it is for?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked embarrassed. "I thought I could use it to cast the
      <em class="calibre7">Becomus Goddus</em> charm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Suddenly the gem spoke with Harry's normal voice. "User too evil
      error." Harry cringed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And where did the <em class="calibre7">Becomus Goddus</em> charm come from?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"User too evil error."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Interesting," said Harry. "It still used my voice and…
      questionable taste in diagnostic messages when you tried to become
      a god. That is evidence against it being set up thousands of years
      ago by a third party."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was holding a device that could conceivably turn someone
      into a deity.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She just invoked it accidentally.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was considered too evil!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry seemed utterly unconcerned by any of this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva couldn't determine which of those ideas was the most
      shocking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't be offended, please," said Harry. I don't think its
      meaning of evil is normal. Whoever set up the conditions where this
      device would be created by the key I used wants it only to work for
      someone who is morally worthy of being a deity. Would you trust me
      to be a god?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. Nothing personal, I don't think I would trust anyone,
      including myself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Agreed. But then why bother having it in the first place? A
      cosmic joke to torment the arrogant? Or maybe there exists some
      perfectly noble soul?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not that I know of."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or maybe there is some way to make a normal human morally
      better. Could you Imperius me and make me permanently
      <em class="calibre7">good</em>? Make me the way I would want to be if I were as
      noble as I would want to be if I were as noble as I would want to
      be if etc."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I doubt it," she replied. "Besides, something sophisticated
      enough to deny godhood to someone based on their moral character
      should certainly deny it to someone in the thrall of someone of
      presumably worse moral character."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. I would probably have thought of that. So yes, the creator
      probably would have. I know! The sorting hat. It has seen lots of
      children's minds. It would know if it had ever seen anyone
      suitable. It might even tell us." Or at least tell you. It doesn't
      like me. Although I would like to see if it still thinks I may turn
      into a dark lord. Oh, no, I shouldn't have suggested this… she may
      see the implication of consciousness implied by such communication.
      "Actually that is a stupid idea I should not have suggested. Maybe
      we should ask Dumbledore?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva nodded.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"You two are getting very chummy, I must say. I quite approve.
      What can a somewhat wise old wizard do for you today?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have another artefact I would like you to examine, please,"
      said Harry as he brought the blood red gemstone out of his moleskin
      pouch with the keyword "transfigured glass."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore had initially shown polite interest at the question,
      but when he saw what Harry had he dropped the quill he was holding.
      For at least half a second he appeared utterly shocked. "That is
      clearly a powerful artefact," he said a second later, far too
      casually. "May I investigate?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry handed it over without a word. While Harry had some
      suspicions of Dumbledore, he was blithely unconcerned about anyone
      abusing this artefact. Anyone it allowed to ascend to deityhood
      would, by design, be an acceptable person to use it. Not
      necessarily the best person – that would be himself, of course. And
      of course he wasn't worried about losing it - if Harry needed it
      later, he could just make a new one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore stared at it intently for almost a minute before
      sighing and dropping it into a glass of water on his desk. He then
      stuck a finger into the water for three seconds, removed his finger
      and carefully studied its tip. Harry was too far away to see any
      detail on his finger – it certainly looked healthy as far as Harry
      could see. Next Dumbledore retrieved some tongs from a drawer in
      his desk, and used them to extract the gemstone which he carefully
      dried with a towel. He put the gem down on the table, and then drew
      his wand – Harry had read enough now to recognise it as the elder
      wand – and cast <em class="calibre7">finite incantatem</em> at the glass of water.
      Having done so, he poured it carefully down the sink.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor McGonagall started to say something, but the
      headmaster put a finger to his lips in the universal shushing
      gesture. He waved his wand again, and a silvery phoenix appeared.
      "Go to Nicolas Flamel," he said. "Ask him to please come here as a
      matter of urgency."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Next the headmaster walked over to Fawkes' roost. The real
      phoenix jumped onto his shoulder. Dumbledore then grabbed the roost
      and broke it over his knee. A blood red gemstone fell out of the
      middle, twin to the one Harry had brought in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore then repeated the glass and water experiment with the
      gemstone from the roost, using a different glass and a different
      finger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Identical," said the headmaster finally. At that point the
      patronus phoenix returned, and reported "He says he cannot come,
      but says to tell Harry to do it." Dumbledore dismissed the
      patronus, and turned to Harry. "In most other circumstances I would
      want to know how Nicolas knows you are here. My office is quite
      secure against remote scrying. Also I must ask you about what you
      are considering doing. But there are more important questions
      first. How did you possibly manage to get a duplicate of the
      philosopher's stone?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry almost choked. <em class="calibre7">So that's what the philosopher's stone
      is. And I didn't believe in it because immortality and gold
      production were absurd fanciful powers. They are presumably just
      minor side effects of the main purpose</em>. "I made it," he said
      simply. "Well, Professor McGonagall transfigured a glass into the
      gemstone, and then I transfigured a pattern of defects into
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is true, Albus," she verified. "I observed him do so. But
      what was the original doing in Fawkes' roost? I thought it was
      protected in the underground chambers by the combined efforts of
      the faculty."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So do many people. But the obstacles placed there were hardly
      inviolable. A sufficiently powerful or ingenious wizard could
      easily bypass them. It seemed sensible to give people an obvious
      and noisy target, when really it was hidden in my office which is,
      actually, very well secured. The odds of someone stumbling over it
      were low, and no one would be suspicious if they detected a large
      concentration of magic in a phoenix's roost."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's opinion of Dumbledore's sanity increased. Hiding it in a
      flashy manner, requiring heroic endeavour to overcome but not
      actually making it truly secure was very much the vibe that the
      headmaster gave off, and that Harry had believed. Everyone knew
      that Dumbledore was not as insane as he pretended – that he was
      really no more insane than an average person not steeped in the art
      of rationality. But maybe he was significantly less insane still
      than that. Whatever, Harry was certainly going to have to update
      his model of Dumbledore. He suddenly realised that it was possible
      that Dumbledore had realised all along many of the things Harry had
      done… such as the Azkaban breakout. Or worse. Maybe he and the
      defence professor had planned it together. It would explain why
      Harry had had a suspiciously easy time proving his innocence, or
      why when the headmaster was searching for Hermione's body he didn't
      cast <em class="calibre7">finite incantatem</em> on the ring, just the gem. Harry
      mentally shook himself. This should be thought about later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anyway, you, Minerva, transfigured the glass into a gem with
      the exterior and colour of this. Correct?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why did you choose that in particular?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No particular reason. I was trying to come up with something
      unlike the prior instance Harry had made. It just seemed like a
      reasonable shape. The colour I copied from the glow on the diadem,
      just on a whim."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have you seen the philosopher's stone before?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Never."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Could someone have been inside your mind at the time?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think so. I was being unusually vigilant, as Harry
      thought that the whole thing might have been some practical joke
      inflicted by some powerful third party. Although the coincidence
      seems improbable."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is time travel beyond the six hours of a time turner possible,"
      asked Harry. He was somewhat concerned about the possible fallout
      for this discussion, but it would be worth it for information
      relevant to the defence professor's proposed ritual.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There have been occasional rumours," said the headmaster. "But
      they are difficult to substantiate without causing paradoxes, which
      in turn would make them impossible. I know of no safe way to do so.
      Destroying a time turner sometimes may have that effect, although
      it is hardly safe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The hypothesis I am concerned about," said Harry, "is the third
      party mentioned by Professor McGonagall, in particular if they are
      malevolent. Suppose someone wanted to make me think that I could
      create the philosopher's stone. Maybe when I was doing some
      experiment, the deceiver would simultaneously perform a more
      powerful magic, actually making it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry," said the headmaster. "Even prior to your creation of
      the most powerful known magical artefact, I respected your
      abilities, and consider you a credible thread to Lord Voldemort.
      However anyone with the power to do what you are suggesting would
      be much more powerful than either of you. What would such a person
      possibly have to gain from confusing you? Even if Lord Voldemort
      had become that powerful, he would simply kill you rather than
      confuse you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Not true</em>, thought Harry. <em class="calibre7">If the defence professor's
      theory were correct, then Voldemort couldn't possibly kill me on
      pain of paradox. Not until I have sent my dark side back in time,
      at which point I would be fair game. If Voldemort could confuse me
      into doing it sooner rather than later, then there could be gains.
      Or there could be some other cosmic player who was just trying to
      get the threat of paradox past.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anyway," continued the headmaster, "We still haven't got to the
      question of how you did it, let alone why."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can do it again, if you like."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would greatly appreciate that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry cast <em class="calibre7">finite incantatem</em> on the gemstone that he
      had brought into the room. Harry's lattice vanished, along with the
      sense of power. Professor McGonagall's transformation remained –
      Harry's magic was not powerful enough to cancel hers. Harry
      visualized the lattice structure with the help of the diadem, and
      did the transformation. It took less time than previously – he must
      be getting practice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry handed the gemstone back to the headmaster. It had the
      feeling of power back now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Merely that." The headmaster looked on with amazement. "How did
      you know that that would create the philosopher's stone?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I had absolutely no idea. I thought the philosopher's stone was
      just a myth. I was just trying a scientific experiment, making a
      cryptographic key. It just happened to result in this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The headmaster looked at him intently. "Harry, I want to make
      sure that you understand me perfectly. I often appear to be
      flippant, but I want you to know that I am absolutely serious on
      this point. You must be careful doing <em class="calibre7">scientific
      experiments</em>. I have another prophecy that I suspect is about
      you: <strong class="calibre9"><em class="calibre7">"HE IS COMING. THE ONE WHO WILL TEAR APART THE
      VERY STARS IN HEAVEN. HE IS COMING. HE IS THE END OF THE
      WORLD."</em></strong> That sounds like a reference to you. Who else
      is likely to end the world?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Possibly the hypothesised absurdly powerful deceiver," said
      Harry. "But I get your point. I will think about everything even
      more carefully." The simplest interpretation would be Harry
      neglecting to retrospectively create Lord Voldemort, creating a
      paradox, and wiping out a now impossible universe. An alternative
      interpretation would be Harry doing the ritual, which was actually
      a trap to make Lord Voldemort more powerful and destructive. Or
      maybe it was Harry doing the ritual, becoming a god, and then doing
      cosmic engineering. "Are prophecies always so frustratingly lacking
      in important specifics?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As far as I know, Harry, yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I need to think. I need to just sit down for a few days and
      think without distractions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Always a wise plan. If I may suggest… could you please destroy
      your copy of the philosopher's stone? You can of course always
      recreate it at will. It would be a disaster if Lord Voldemort got
      his hands on it. He would be restored to his full powers."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait! Does that mean it could resurrect Hermione?" <em class="calibre7">If you
      Dumbledore had the philosopher's stone in your office and denied
      her life out of some insane fatalistic religious convictions, then
      I immediately assign to you the title of public enemy number
      one.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, Harry. It can do amazing healing, but it cannot bring back
      the dead. Lord Voldemort is a special case as he is not fully dead,
      having created several Horcruxes. Whatever you do, do not let the
      stone touch the diadem."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, no," said Harry weakly. He cast <em class="calibre7">finite incantatem</em>
      again on his copy of the stone, and then pocketed the inert gem. He
      briefly worried about the knowledge of the pattern being stored in
      the diadem, but clearly some embodiment was required too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I shall now have to find a new hiding place for the one I
      am protecting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Out of Hogwarts! Get that dark lord magnet away from the kids.
      Better still, destroy it. I can easily make another one if
      needed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see your point, Harry. But I am somewhat restricted in my
      ability. I will certainly bring it up again immediately with
      Nicolas Flamel. He was very specific about it. He and I need to
      have a long talk. At the risk of saying something utterly obvious,
      you should keep this ability of yours very secret. You are enough
      of a target as it is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course." Harry paused, wondering if a tirade against Nicolas
      Flamel would be helpful. Probably not. Instead he asked in a small
      voice, "One other thing. I would like to become a better person. I
      am seriously worried about what I might accidentally do through
      being self-absorbed. Do you know any magic that would make me…
      nicer? Less evil?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All such magic would be unforgivable."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't mind. I am scared of myself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your heart is in the right place, Harry. Trust it. Your brain…
      well, I cannot deny that it is very powerful. But sometimes you
      need to think things through just a little longer. Make a habit of
      it, and it will become second nature."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was hoping for a more specific answer, or at least an
      opening to try on the sorting hat. He considered using the time
      turner and invisibility cloak to get it, but that may fail if
      Dumbledore spent too long in his office. Besides, there were
      probably wards all around, and the portraits were watching. The hat
      would tell him little he didn't know, anyway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Professor McGonagall said their goodbyes. Out in the
      corridor, having noted that no one was near, she spoke to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You didn't tell him why you made it. Do you not trust him to
      know?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is not that I distrust him; rather I am not sure that I
      trust the portraits or the office's defences against scrying. If
      the true purpose got out, I would be even more of a dark lord
      magnet. It seemed that the fewer people knew about it, the safer I
      was. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor McGonagall nodded.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
