<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>32. Harry Potter and the cryptographic key - Harry Potter and the cryptographic key Chapter 5: I want to become a better person, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="32. Harry Potter and the cryptographic key"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s5" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 5: I want to become a better person</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">The defence professor was still alive. But he moved little other
      than his eyes when Harry entered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have another present for you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I did forbid you from getting another unicorn."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry handed him a glass. "This was water. I dipped the
      philosopher's stone in it. Hopefully it is Elixir of life now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The defence professor jumped up at that. "You never cease to
      surprise me, Harry." The side of his lips twitch up. "Few people
      ever start. How did you obtain that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The professor hadn't actually drunk it. Harry understood. It
      would be an easy way for Harry to assassinate him, should he wish
      to do so. Harry had given every indication of good will, but in
      light of the last conversation, there was indeed a small chance
      that Harry might decide not to go through with the ritual, and to
      kill the only other person who might make a fuss about it. It would
      be a surprising thing for Harry to do, but maybe the professor's
      comment had multiple levels.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dumbledore handed me the stone briefly. I made the elixir
      without him observing." Both true, even if the stone that Harry had
      used was not the one Dumbledore had handed him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I told you not to ask Dumbledore about it!" The professor's
      voice was sharp.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He brought it up. I had absolutely no idea that he was going
      to. It surprised me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why did he do such a thing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My best guess is that he wanted to reassure himself it was
      still where he had hidden it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let me guess. It was not in the chamber that he got all of us
      to make a guard for."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I feel that it would be a breach of confidence for me to answer
      that question."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The defence professor smiled, and drank the aromatic elixir.
      There was no immediate reaction, but ten seconds later he was
      sitting more erect. Harry exhaled in relief.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, Harry. This will sustain me at least as long as a
      unicorn would have, with fewer side effects for me and many fewer
      for the unicorn."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I expect I will be able to obtain another one when it is
      needed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The defence professor looked up at him sharply. "How on earth
      can you anticipate that?" Harry shrugged. He couldn't think of any
      honest but safe answer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will stop looking a gift unicorn in the mouth. Speaking of
      gifts, how is the diadem suiting you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grinned. He was wearing it at that point, of course. "I
      never want to take it off. Thought is life to me. I am pretty sure
      I would not have obtained the elixir so easily without it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The defence professor smiled somewhat bitterly. "Giving that to
      you was motivated primarily by a rare instance of altruism on my
      part. It seems somehow sad for it to have benefited me directly so
      quickly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Altruism is a result of evolution. It has benefits for the
      individual in that a society with somewhat altruistic members is
      more likely to flourish than one without, and this is good for
      everyone including the altruistic. Alternatively, powering up your
      friends is often productive."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So. Are you altruistic enough to sacrifice the worst part of
      your nature?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have decided to do so." Harry had thought long and hard about
      this. It did seem the right thing to do, and if it backfired by
      creating a super Voldemort, well, he would be faced by a Harry
      Potter able to cast <em class="calibre7">Becomus Goddus</em>. "I would like to do so
      as soon as possible, while I have the courage and you have your
      health." <em class="calibre7">And while it is fresh in your mind that my continued
      existence as a free thinking individual is necessary for your
      supply of elixir of life</em>. "What do I need to do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am not entirely sure. There are many things that are clear.
      It will be powered by your sacrifice. But what is not entirely
      clear to me is how to define what part of your personality is the
      part to be excised. You probably have a better idea than me. If you
      can define it, I can incorporate it into a ritual. I think it would
      be better discussed in privacy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The professor changed into a snake, and hissed at Harry. "I,
      like you, am a man of multiple parts. The body you see stumbled
      onto and triggered a Horcrux of Lord Voldemort. I am part him. I am
      part David Monroe, who for a long time led the fight against
      Voldemort until Dumbledore stepped up. The personality of my
      original body has significantly softened Lord Voldemort's
      personality, as with you. David Monroe was very strong, and fought
      the good fight, as they say. But he was not what most people would
      call <em class="calibre7">nice</em>, and the lack of gratitude – or even cooperation
      - from the people he protected instilled a level of contempt for
      humanity. He vowed never to overestimate the decency of humanity
      again. Those two personalities are not that different, and I could
      not separate them easily. Nor would I want to – they are both part
      of me now. While I am somewhat ruthless, I feel no desire to hurt
      for the sake of doing so. That is really what made Lord Voldemort a
      monster. The David Monroe personality is the strongest in me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a startling admission, but not so surprising. Harry had
      done his homework and knew much about David Monroe, and had
      suspected a Lord Voldemort link with the defence professor for a
      long time. Harry probably wouldn't have noticed the slightly
      strange phrasing of one portion if it were not for the diadem. The
      professor had implied that it was David Monroe who had triggered
      the Horcrux and merged with Lord Voldemort. But if so he probably
      would have used slightly different phrasing. An entirely plausible
      alternative interpretation was that David Monroe and Lord Voldemort
      had always been the same person, and it was some hapless third
      party who triggered the Horcrux and acquired the two of them. That
      could explain the long inconclusive war – it would be easy to drag
      a war on if you led both sides. So maybe the whole war, the whole
      character of Lord Voldemort was a sham.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If it was a sham, why? Presumably to get David Monroe political
      power. He would acquire a reputation as a dangerous, scary, hero.
      Then he would take control of magical Britain – people would be
      motivated by <em class="calibre7">both</em> fear of him <em class="calibre7">and</em> gratitude
      towards him. A heady combination that. Then he would finally
      destroy the stalking horse Lord Voldemort, and have his position
      cemented. He wouldn't even have to worry about the heroes coming to
      get him, or the list of things an evil overlord should never
      do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But he had made a big mistake. He had overestimated the finer
      feelings of humanity. It probably never occurred to him that this
      was possible. That had to hurt. Maybe it explained the professor's
      insistent lack of belief in true altruism. Then of course he made a
      bigger mistake, attacking Harry and incurring the wrath of the
      universe's paradox avoidance mechanism.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The speculation was important, but the most time sensitive thing
      was to verify that it did not invalidate Harry's decision to go
      through with the ritual. What ulterior motives could the defence
      professor have if this were the case? Clearly, the ostensible goal
      of maintaining the existence of the universe as he knew it was
      still valid.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A nasty thought crossed Harry's mind. If David Monroe had not
      received enough gratitude, then maybe Harry Potter had. Maybe the
      defence professor was intending to empty Harry's mind with the
      ritual, and then take over the empty husk of his body without the
      dilution of self that would come from a Horcrux merge. Particularly
      since the effect that stopped their magic working on each other
      would presumably vanish after the ritual. Harry's heart dropped.
      Right from the start, the defence professor had taught Harry how to
      lose. How to stop fighting. Maybe that had a secondary goal of
      making it easier for his mind to be taken over.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So. That just meant that he needed to make sure that the ritual
      did not wipe out all of his personality, and that the very first
      thing he did after the ritual was cast the Becomus Goddus spell.
      After all, everything would be easy after that was done
      successfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Furthermore, the upside for humanity of the Becomus Goddus spell
      working was so high that the risk of the ritual backfiring was
      worth taking. Harry had to admit it was not just altruism talking –
      it was the easiest way he could see to resurrect Hermione. And that
      was not selfless, that was personal.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When I get angry," said Harry at last, "I get a feeling of cold
      clarity. Then I can think about the best solution to my problems,
      without any regard for morality. It feels almost like a different
      personality. That is the easiest to recognise portion of my
      personality as the Voldemort fragment. But it may be more than
      that. Part of me says that whatever I guess will turn out to be
      correct since by time loop I must have already done it; another
      part of me is rather scared by such logic and demands that I treat
      the subject with all the care I can."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Agreed. Care is good."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry considered the fixed point of nobility he had discussed
      with professor McGonagall. That seemed likely to pass the "User too
      evil" test of his stone, but it may very well not pass the "user
      still conscious" test. There was a weaker version that would
      probably pass both tests. "I have a suggestion. It may not be
      possible to express in a ritual, but may be worth suggesting as a
      basis."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go ahead. If you can express in in English, there is a good
      chance I can express it in a ritual."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Call my personality H. Let H' be the personality left when I
      have lost the aspects of my personality that I consider evil. Let
      H'' be H', less the additional pieces of personality that H'
      considers evil. Continue this process until you stop removing
      pieces. By definition, the resulting person cannot consider himself
      evil." <em class="calibre7">And therefore I should pass my own test</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The snake that was the professor considered that for a
      while.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You make it too complex, out of habit of muggle mathematical
      language. I suggest that the following is equivalent: `I
      continually sacrifice those parts of myself I consider evil, until
      there is no part left of me that I consider evil.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In that case, student, you just say that phrase at the same
      time I do my portion of the ritual. Could you repeat it for me
      please to make sure you have it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With the help of the diadem perfect memory was effortless.
      Nevertheless, Harry obediently repeated "I continually sacrifice
      those parts of myself I consider evil, until there is no part left
      of me that I consider evil."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The snake converted back to the tired figure of the defence
      professor. "Regardless of what happens, Harry, I want you to know
      that you have been the best company I have had in my life. Are you
      ready?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am." He didn't feel ready. He felt as if he was about to make
      the biggest mistake of his life.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then start."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry started. The professor spoke rapidly in a language Harry
      did not recognise, all the while waving his wand. Thrice the
      professor grabbed items off his desk, and threw them in the air
      where they vanished in green mist. Harry began to feel faint, feel
      a pulling in his head. A woman, possibly Bellatrix Back, appeared,
      holding the defence professor's hand. Harry finished his sentence.
      Then there was blackness.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
