<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>32. Harry Potter and the cryptographic key - Harry Potter and the cryptographic key Chapter 7: I am not the heir to Ravenclaw, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="32. Harry Potter and the cryptographic key"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s7" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 7: I am not the heir to Ravenclaw</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione was sure she was about to die. Not that she had been
      thinking clearly, with the rapid blood loss. She had not expected
      an afterlife, and certainly not in an ongoing battle in the defence
      professor's office. She recognised the defence professor, saw him
      kill the headmaster with a green spell, presumably <em class="calibre7">Avada
      Kedavra</em>, although it was spoken too quickly to tell. A wave of
      anger passed over her. She had never liked or trusted him, and was
      horrified at his campaign to poison Harry's character. He probably
      set the troll on her. He had arranged for her to be <em class="calibre7">eaten</em>.
      For the first time in her life she truly hated someone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Reflect on motivations later; concentrate on the present danger
      first. Her body looked whole. She felt better than ever. Harry must
      have pulled some spectacular rabbit out of his hat, and, true to
      form, got himself in major trouble as a result. Her wand was
      absent, but Dumbledore's had fallen near her. She picked it up, her
      fine memory recognising it as the elder wand. It would do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Kill Hermione," said the defence professor. It looked as if he
      was speaking to Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was looking at her in horror. <em class="calibre7">Imperius</em>, she
      guessed. If she could kill the defence professor she should be
      fine. It appeared he was not feeling threatened by her; she might
      be able to surprise him with her unaccustomed vim. She cast a
      blindingly fast <em class="calibre7">stupify</em> charm at the defence professor. A
      thick red bolt left her wand, and, too fast to see clearly, swerved
      around the defence professor. That approach wasn't going to
      work.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was losing the battle to resist the curse. He looked down
      at his pouch. That could not be good. She recognised the diadem on
      his head. She had seen paintings of Rowena wearing it. The colour
      was red rather than blue, but that was probably insignificant.
      <em class="calibre7">Accio diadem</em>, she cast. It flew rapidly off his head into
      her hand. Harry stumbled, and looked confused for a moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The diadem blazed with blue light when Hermione put it on her
      head. It was <em class="calibre7">wonderful</em>. It meshed so perfectly with her
      mind that she was convinced it could have been designed
      specifically for her. She felt like a Goddess. Everything was so
      obvious. The crease in Harry's robes above his chest, for instance.
      That was most likely from a Time Turner. She had thought them myth,
      but it would explain so many of his otherwise impossible feats. The
      <em class="calibre7">cheater</em>!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It didn't matter. Now she had the diadem, she could cheat
      herself. She could outthink him. Her magic was more powerful than
      his; he didn't have a chance in a fair fight, even if he had a
      wand. But it wasn't remotely fair. While he was handicapped by his
      attempts to fight the imperious, she had a far bigger handicap.
      Killing Harry was not something she would let herself do. And even
      if she did, they would both be at the mercy of the defence
      professor, who had clearly just effortlessly killed Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She had one advantage. The defence professor underestimated her.
      He was sure she would not kill Harry, and he had made no move to
      help Harry in the fight against her. She hated when adults
      underestimated her. Without letting her expression change, she fed
      the rage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had regained his composure from losing the diadem. "I am
      sorry, Hermione. There is no good solution here. We have lost. I
      made a gamble, and it failed. There is no way I am going to leave
      this in any way recognisable as myself. Neither are you. The most
      likely outcome is that you spend the rest of your life under
      Imperius, forced to do terrible things, wishing you were dead. Just
      like me now. Your best option is to kill yourself pre-emptively. I
      assure you from personal experience that there is nothing you want
      less than to end up like me now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Possibly true. She hated what the monster had done to Harry, to
      Dumbledore, to herself. She hated like she had never done in her
      life. Then she spun the elder wand around at the defence professor
      again. <em class="calibre7">Avada Kedavra</em>. Unthinkable. Unforgivable.
      <em class="calibre7">Unblockable</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The defence professor smirked in contempt. She had predicted
      that, but even so, it made her anger blaze for a moment. <em class="calibre7">Avada
      Kedavra</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This time, a bolt of green energy streamed out of her wand. Try
      deflecting that, condescending murderous dark lord possessing my
      friend, she thought in triumph</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The defence professor had not quite as underestimated her as she
      had hoped. He was ready on the balls of his feet, and he simply
      dodged. "Bravo, Miss Granger," he said, bowing without taking his
      eyes off her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She turned back to Harry, who had changed tactics. He had just
      taken something out of his moleskin pouch, and was now throwing it
      at her. Danger. Several seconds ago, her time, he had blown up the
      troll's head with a similar move. She deflected the unknown objects
      with a simple shield charm. His other hand held some stone. Her
      mind split into thousands of threads, analysing it. One noticed
      that it matched vague references to the shape of the philosopher's
      stone. That must be how she was alive. Harry changed tactics and
      started putting his invisibility cloak on. Danger. She would be
      vulnerable to physical attack if he were invisible. She needed to
      disable him before that happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She couldn't break the defence professor's Imperius. Her magic
      was not nearly strong enough, even with the elder wand. She
      couldn't even claim to be its true owner. The only other way she
      knew to lift an Imperius curse was to arrange for the caster to not
      be alive. Her mind split into tens of thousands of threads as she
      thought through the space of possibilities.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Got it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She imagined the tiny piece of glass at the narrowest point on
      the time turner, pointed the elder wand at the lump on Harry's
      chest, and cast <em class="calibre7">Accio fragment</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was the faint sound of breaking glass.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then <em class="calibre7">something</em> happened. There was falling
      involved.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Elsewhen</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't pick himself up immediately. That would be
      threatening. He let go of the cloak and the philosopher's stone,
      and put his empty hands up in the air. He felt badly bruised and
      totally ridiculous, sprawled on the ground. That was fine.
      Ridiculous was an improvement on ten seconds ago, subjective. He
      said "I am free of Imperius, Hermione. Thank you, and magnificently
      done."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She picked herself up gingerly and looked around, maintaining
      the wand pointed directly at Harry. The two of them were alone in a
      grassy meadow where Hogwarts would one day be built. The
      surrounding countryside looked right, apart from the lack of a
      school. Her plan had worked. The defence professor was not alive
      <em class="calibre7">now</em>. She lowered her wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I guess we're on our own now," she said. "Two small children
      with nothing to protect us other than our wits, the elder wand, the
      philosopher's stone, the true cloak of invisibility, and Rowena
      Ravenclaw's diadem."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not to mention the contents of my moleskin pouch," said Harry,
      picking himself up. "After your death, I loaded it up with quite a
      collection of muggle artefacts. I don't think we should have many
      problems looking after ourselves, assuming we are still in the era
      of homo sapiens."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yes. We are about three thousand years back. Certainly no
      more than five thousand years. Geology." She smirked, waving an arm
      at the scenery. She was keeping the diadem. It would make Harry's
      company less aggravating.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I expect I could learn a new language in weeks, with the help
      of the diadem." Harry tentatively raised a hand a fraction, the
      merest hint of a request. Hermione ignored it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think I could learn one in days," she replied. "We should
      probably use assumed names. We want to be careful not to cause
      paradoxes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shivered. "Yes," he said. "I wonder how many of the people
      we have heard of we will be. It is a good thing I have several
      history books in my pouch. Fancy yourself as Rowena? We will live
      for a long time, with the philosopher's stone. Time to gain
      experience."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
