<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>32. Harry Potter and the cryptographic key - Harry Potter and the cryptographic key Chapter 9: Bonus extra, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="32. Harry Potter and the cryptographic key"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s9" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 9: Bonus extra</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Author note: I intended the story to stop here, and it is
      probably better to do so. But people in the comments asked for a
      bit more, and… well here is a vignette from Hermione's point of
      view, about a thousand years ago. Dedicated to the partners of
      people with depression.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Jealousy would be much easier to handle. It would even be
      understandable. After all, Hermione got to <em class="calibre7">do things</em>, and
      not only that, but do them publicly in the guise of the coolest
      person in all of magical history. But no, Harry was too noble – or
      rational – to be feel any resentment towards her. Instead he got
      depressed. Whatever his other manifold virtues, living with a
      depressed person for centuries was <em class="calibre7">horrible</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The first couple of years were pretty good. They were busy
      getting themselves established, and they had been very satisfied
      with each other as friendship turned into romantic love. Harry's
      manic energy and clumsy attempts to do everything optimally were at
      the least endearing. They had rapidly acquired massive power over
      the years, with Harry's ingenuity and her blazing, diadem assisted
      intellect. He wasn't even jealous of <em class="calibre7">that</em>, the ultimate in
      enlightenment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But then the grinding misery of their position became, well,
      life. They were there to endure. To see horrible things happen to
      people, and to mostly <em class="calibre7">not interfere</em>. For they knew for
      sure that disrupting history would cause the universe as they knew
      it to cease to exist. There was even the possibility that it could
      wipe out all universes, given the timescale of their jump. Somehow
      that must have taken an absurd amount of energy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Instead they had to watch, assiduously checking with Hermione's
      perfect memory of the history she happened to have read. They
      assumed that as long as they did a reasonable job of the big
      things, the small ones would sort themselves out, as, after all,
      they already had. Harry was truly learning to lose. To give up
      things he cared about deeply, for the long term goal of becoming
      wise enough to pass his own – presumably – test of "experience".
      And if he failed – if all the suffering was in vain – then the
      world would lose its benevolent god. And possibly cease to exist
      too, for that matter. For how then would the key Harry had made
      have conceivably come from?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So, watch misery helplessly, stressed out about becoming worthy
      of being a god. Depression replaced manic energy as striving got
      replaced by enduring. Hermione took it badly. Harry took it
      exceedingly badly. Possibly the worst part for her was to see the
      husk of Harry spending most days unable to get out of bed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It had been even worse now, as the time of Hogwart's founding
      approached. Soon Hermione would get to be Rowena Ravenclaw, and
      <em class="calibre7">do things</em>. It is not as if they had never taken on the
      appearance of some other history maker who as it turned out didn't
      actually exist, but Rowena would definitely be the most fun. Fun
      that Harry could not participate in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had felt a little better when they found the parents
      Slytherin and cast mighty protective magics on baby Salazar. Harry
      had dreaded having to play his role, the obvious choice. Although
      the way things were going, Hermione had seriously considered
      assassinating the now seven year old kid. Surely Harry would be
      better off doing <em class="calibre7">something</em>. It would be unfair on Salazar.
      But a sane Harry was pretty important for the greatest good for the
      greatest number.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So it was a surprise when she walked in the door and saw a
      beaming Harry dangling from the ceiling, toes hooked over a joist.
      "I've been checking up some remote possibilities. Guess who doesn't
      exist?" he asked. Before she could answer, he clicked his fingers
      for the first time in two centuries, and a huge silver sword
      appeared in his hand, <em class="calibre7">nihil supernum</em> engraved on it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grinned.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
