<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Oh God Not Again pt2 - Oh God Not Again! Chapter 36, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Oh God Not Again pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s11" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 36</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: I do not own Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: Wow. A guy doesn't want Percy making them tea and all of a
      sudden they are a violent, insane Death Eater. :p Could happen.
      Also, every time I try to type 'Daily Prophet' I keep accidentally
      typing 'Daily Planet'. One of these days that slip is going to get
      through…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry – who had spent the night before his return to Hogwarts at
      the Burrow so he could go with the Weasleys, Hermione, and Neville
      – woke up to the familiar sounds of Ron and Hermione bickering.
      Seriously, why had it taken him so long to realize that those two
      had unresolved sexual tension up to their ears? Ah, right, the same
      reason it had taken him six years to realize Ginny liked him: he
      was oblivious as hell back then.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you ask me, Mr. Crouch is very lucky no one at the <em class="calibre8">Daily
      Prophet</em> knows how mean he is to elves!" Hermione was saying
      angrily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you talking about?" Ron replied, sounding exasperated.
      "He was very nice to her! He let her stay in his tent during the
      Match because she was scared of heights and everything!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He doesn't PAY Winky," Hermione snapped. "Therefore she's his
      <strong class="calibre9">slave</strong>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<span>No one</span> pays House Elves, Hermione," Ron retorted.
      "That's the point of having a House Elf!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Harry</em> does," Hermione pointed to him as he came into
      the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Leave me out of this," Harry requested but went unheeded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, well Harry's not exactly a shining example of normality,
      is he?" Ron pointed out. "Besides, from what I can tell Dobby's
      pretty off, too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As much as I hate to get involved in your little lover's spat –
      and believe me, I DO hate to get involved – Ron has a point,"
      Neville said, presumably drawn to the kitchen by the sound of
      shouting. "Most House Elves get offended if you try to pay them.
      They don't want to be free."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you're saying it's alright to enslave an entire race of
      magical creatures?" Hermione demanded angrily, turning on him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not saying anything of the sort," Neville held up his hands
      in a placating gesture. "But that's House Elf mentality. If you
      gave them all clothes today and forced them to take payment for
      their work, less people would want them and they would be very
      unhappy. You want change, you need to change people's mentality
      first."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmph."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Besides, since House Elves are always enslaved and Mr. Crouch
      didn't seem to be very abusive when you guys met Winky, I don't
      anyone – least of all the <em class="calibre8">Daily Prophet</em> – really cares,"
      Harry pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, Mum wanted me to give this to you," Ginny came up behind
      him and dumped a parcel into Harry's hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, um…thanks, I guess," Harry said, a little confused. "What
      is it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mum figured that since you were running around with Sirius all
      summer you wouldn't have had time to do your school shopping so she
      got some gold out of your vault and did it for you," Ginny
      explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why does your mother have access to my Gringott's vault?" Harry
      asked immediately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny shrugged. "Who knows?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Seriously, I need to see a list of who's authorized because
      really, the only one who should be able to access it is me and,
      because of my minor status, my godfather," Harry decided.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny sighed loudly. "Why do you always make everything so
      difficult? Can't you just be thankful that she got your school
      supplies for you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would," Harry admitted. "Except that I already paid Dobby to
      do it for me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Ginny said. "Well, that's kind of awkward…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh don't worry," Harry waved it off. "I can just sell them
      throughout the year to anyone who needs to replace any of their
      supplies. It will be much faster than Owl Post. And that's really
      an idea…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well…at least you're making the best of everything," Ginny said
      doubtfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This means I've got two sets of dress robes…" Harry mused. "I'm
      only ever actually going to wear one, though…Hey, Ron," he
      called.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah?" Ron, who had returned to bickering with Hermione, looked
      over at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Due to a shopping error, I now have two sets of dress robes. I
      only need one set. Do you want to borrow my second set?" Harry
      offered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron made a face. "<em class="calibre8">Harry</em>. You know how I feel about
      chari-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Laundry!" Mrs. Weasley announced, walking into the room and
      handing robes to the occupants.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mum, you gave me Ginny's new dress," Ron said, holding a long,
      maroon velvet dress robe with a moldy-looking lace frill at the
      collar and matching lace cuffs out to her. Harry wondered vaguely
      why Molly always tried to make Ron wear maroon. It wasn't like she
      didn't have the exact same hair color; surely she realized he
      looked horrible in it by now? Was the maroon really the only color
      available on sale? Couldn't she use a spell to change the
      color?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny snorted. "Please. I wouldn't be caught dead in that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then what-?" Ron began, eying the dress robes nervously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginny!" Molly scolded. "Those are your new dress robes, of
      course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Ron nodded. "Harry, is your offer still open?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The offer I made two minutes ago?" Harry asked rhetorically.
      "Of course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Great," Ron looked relieved.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What offer is this?" Molly asked curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry's lending me his spare set of dress robes for…whatever we
      need dress robes for," Ron explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Molly's mouth became a thin line. "He most certainly is
      <span>not</span>. You are going to wear these dress robes and you
      are going to like it, young man!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mrs. Weasley," Harry cut in hesitantly, hoping the Weasley
      matron wasn't about to bite his head off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Harry dear?" she asked warmly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I really don't need two sets but I currently have them. If I
      don't let Ron use them than chances are I'll just end up giving
      them to Dobby and they're too big for him to have any real use for,
      so he'll probably cut it up and use it as a cleaning cloth and this
      material is far too nice for that," Harry said earnestly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well…" Molly looked like she was relenting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Besides, you should see Ginny's robes," Ron pointed to his
      sister's very pretty royal blue dress robes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginevra," Molly gasped. "Where did you-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny shot a glare at her brother. "There was a sale going on,"
      she lied, still refusing to admit she had money for fear her
      parents would try and make her wait until she was of age to access
      it so she'd be responsible with it. Well she didn't want to be
      responsible, she wanted to get out of wearing maroon to…whatever
      they needed dress robes for.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We WILL talk about this later, young lady," Molly promised as
      she swept out of the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny snorted. "When? I'm going back to Hogwarts tomorrow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She is really scary," Hermione said quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, are you two still in the room?" Harry asked, looking over
      at her and Neville. "Why haven't you said anything for the past ten
      minutes?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We know better than to invoke the famous Weasley temper,"
      Neville explained. "You know, she really reminds me of my Gran
      sometimes…except more maternal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Famous <em class="calibre8">Weasley</em> temper?" Harry repeated incredulously.
      As his four friends nodded, he started laughing. "Guys, Mr. Weasley
      is one of the most even-tempered people I've ever met. The one with
      the temper is Mrs. Weasley and she's a Prewett, so wouldn't it be
      the famous <strong class="calibre9">Prewett</strong> temper?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I...guess," Neville conceded, looking like he couldn't care
      less.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">At Platform 9¾ the next day, Bill and Charlie were having great
      fun teasing their younger siblings. Except for Percy, who was too
      busy trying to be a responsible adult and actually working. Clearly
      this is a sign that Percy hates his family and is just looking for
      an excuse to throw them over.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I might be seeing you all sooner than you think," Charlie said,
      grinning, as he hugged Ginny goodbye.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why?" Fred asked keenly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you going to be in Britain for Christmas?" Harry asked
      innocently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…Let's go with that," Charlie replied. "After all, if it were
      for any other reason at all, I wouldn't be supposed to say as
      it's…what was it… 'classified information until such time the
      Ministry sees fit to release it.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Kind of makes you wonder, really, why in the world it's such a
      big secret. I mean, anyone even vaguely connected with the Ministry
      knows but the Hogwarts students can't?" Harry complained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Charlie eyed him curiously. "How do you know-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know everything," Harry said seriously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought that was your scar," Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My scar is a part of me," Harry shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really, because when you were claiming that you weren't psychic
      earlier-" Hermione began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop nitpicking," Harry told her, ignoring her outraged gasp
      and turning back towards the adult Weasley boys.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you know why I sort of wish I was back at Hogwarts this
      year," Bill said, looking almost wistful.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"WHY?" George asked impatiently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probably because being an adult sucks," Harry guessed.
      "Although since he's a travelling curse breaker I don't see why
      he'd want to go back to Snap-er, exams."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You guys are going to have an interesting year," Bill defended.
      "I might even get some time off to come and watch a bit of it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A bit of <em class="calibre8">what</em>?" Ron demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville shrugged. "Who knows? Every year Harry has is pretty
      interesting and since no one actually tried to kill Harry last year
      – except possibly Professor Snape for giving Sirius ideas – this
      year should be twice as deadly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How does that even work?" Ginny asked quizzically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's Harry," Neville said, as if that explained everything.
      Which it kind of did.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks for having us stay, Mrs. Weasley," Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, thanks for everything," Neville added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, it was my pleasure, dears," said Mrs. Weasley.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, sure it's her pleasure when it's Ron's friends," Fred
      muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But when WE want to have people over it's always 'we'll see',"
      George added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or when I want to have friends over it's 'Ron's friends are
      around your age' or 'Luna lives right over the hill'," Ginny
      contributed. The twins glared at her for breaking their rhythm.
      "Sorry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's blatant favoritism, that's what it is," Fred sniffed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Too right, Fred," George agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, it's because last time Lee Jordan came to visit you blew up
      the house," corrected Mrs. Weasley.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We only blew it up a LITTLE," Fred insisted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And it's not like you didn't fix it in five minutes anyway,"
      George finished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anyway," Mrs. Weasley sighed. "I'd invite you all for
      Christmas, but…well, I expect you're all going to want to stay at
      Hogwarts, what with…one thing and another."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh come on!" Ron moaned as they went to go find a compartment.
      "Mum knows, too? She's not even in the Ministry! Can't you just
      tell me what it is, Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I could," Harry agreed. "But I don't want to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're not letting them know about the Triwizard Tournament?"
      Luna's ethereal voice came from behind them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope," Harry said cheerfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's a Triwizard Tournament?" Hermione asked, looking a bit
      irritated not to know when clearly everyone else did.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a competition that was established seven hundred years ago
      between Hogwarts, Beauxbatons, and Durmstrang. A representative
      from each school is chosen and the three champions compete in three
      magical tasks. Ever five years, the schools took turns hosting the
      Tournament. Several centuries ago, however, the death toll got to
      be too high and they cancelled it," Neville explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Death toll?" Hermione asked, horrified.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, duh, Hermione," Ron said. "Think how easy it is to nearly
      die just by going to Hogwarts even WITHOUT the extra danger thrown
      in."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's awful," Hermione whispered. "It's a good thing they
      cancelled it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Didn't you hear Luna?" Harry asked. "They're reinstating
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure Dumbledore has more sense than that," Hermione said
      skeptically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wouldn't bet on it," Harry muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's okay, Harry," Luna told him. "One of these days the power
      of our insanity will prove to be too much for her and she'll HAVE
      to believe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know," Harry nodded. "I just wish that day was today."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…Father says Durmstrang takes a far more sensible line than
      Hogwarts about the Dark Arts. Durmstrang students actually
      <em class="calibre8">learn</em> them, not just the defense rubbish we do," Draco was
      saying as he entered their compartment, followed by his two
      faithful stooges. "Mother put her foot down though and said no son
      of hers would ever be caught dead in a Durmstrang uniform. I can
      kind of see her point, I'll admit. I mean, who wears fur nowadays,
      really? Still…think of how much fun I could have learning all sorts
      of Dark spells…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you think Durmstrang would have suited you, do you?"
      Hermione said angrily. "I wish you HAD gone, then we wouldn't have
      to put up with you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco raised an eyebrow. "Claws out today, Granger? Are you just
      sore Durmstrang doesn't accept Muggleborns?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Hermione denied. "Durmstrang has a horrible reputation!
      According to <em class="calibre8">Appraisal of Magical Education in Europe</em>, it
      puts a lot of emphasis on the Dark Arts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not exactly a horrible reputation," Neville pointed out.
      "Although the no Muggleborn policy does draw some criticism from
      the more moderate factions of wizarding society."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So…going to enter, Weasley?" Draco asked, bored with the
      discussion of the school he'd chosen not to go to. "Going to try to
      earn a bit of money so you don't have to make Potter buy you
      everything?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Enter what?" Ron asked blankly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't know?" Draco looked amused. "Your dad and three of
      your brothers are involved, how can you not KNOW? What about you,
      Potter? You never miss a chance to show off, after all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "Probably. I heard they're using an age line to
      keep anyone under the age of seventeen out, but I'm not exactly
      going to let that stop me. And as for why they don't know…Luna
      tried to tell them, but they don't believe her. Which is strange
      because she's right more often than not…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's because what I say sounds strange," Luna explained. "And
      to quote my favorite cricket player, 'in an insane world the sane
      appear insane.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do <em class="calibre8">you</em> know about the Tournament?" Ginny
      demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait, you believe Luna and Harry?" Ron asked in disbelief.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny nodded. "I've known Luna for years and everyone knows that
      the crazier the things that come out of Harry's mouth are, the more
      accurate they get."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Point," Neville acknowledged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, my father found out about it ages ago," Draco said airily.
      "He heard about it from Cornelius Fudge."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's against the rules because it's supposed to be secret
      until the time comes for it to be revealed!" Hermione protested.
      "So what your father did, Malfoy, is wrong!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco stared at her. "Do you honestly expect me to care or
      something?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You should," Hermione said defiantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco laughed. "My father was accused of being a Death Eater
      after the Dark Lord fell and that accusation keeps coming up every
      time someone doesn't like him. As a wealthy, powerful Pureblood
      lots of people don't like him. When compared to having your father
      accused of being a terrorist, do you really think it matters in the
      slightest if he told me about some stupid tournament a few weeks in
      advance?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…It should," Hermione repeated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whatever," Draco shook his head, leaving the compartment,
      Crabbe and Goyle following silently behind him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you think Goyle even knows how to talk?" Harry asked
      idly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about Crabbe?" Ron asked. "I always thought he looked
      stupider."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He may not be the brightest guy around," Harry conceded,
      remembering how he'd managed to kill himself with Fiendfyre he
      really shouldn't have been casting in the first place. "But he's
      not THAT stupid."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your scar again?" Hermione asked skeptically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe," Harry muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey Luna," Ginny asked suddenly. "Do you believe in Harry's
      psychic scar?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh no," the blonde girl shook her head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then how do you explain how he always knows everything?"
      Neville inquired.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna blinked. "He's obviously from the future."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stared at her for half a second before bursting out
      laughing. "That's even less likely than his scar being
      semi-sentient."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which it totally is," Harry managed to say truthfully, since it
      was a Horcrux and whatnot, while staring at Luna speculatively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What makes you say that?" Ginny wanted to know.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, how else would you explain it?" Luna asked
      reasonably.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: Yeah, I know Harry (and the author) loves Mrs. Weasley,
      but to me she's always come off as overbearing and a bit
      smothering, always trying to control her children's lives even when
      they're adults and keeping important information away from them
      because they 'shouldn't have to' deal with it. Shouldn't have to,
      maybe, but DO. Naturally, this is kind of annoying to someone who
      kind of outgrew the need for a surrogate mother like Future Harry.
      Oh, and belief in a Tabloid author over her son's best friend and
      hostility towards Hermione to the point where Harry was forced to
      call her on it was ridiculous, too. But then, I'm one of those who
      would have rather seen Augusta Longbottom take down Bellatrix
      because she actually had some personal beef with her instead of
      just 'oh, my daughter is in a battle and someone's trying to hurt
      her, that bitch must die!'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Review Please!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
