<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Oh God Not Again pt2 - Oh God Not Again! Chapter 37, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Oh God Not Again pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s12" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 37</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: I do not own Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: Wow, there were a lot of pissed anti-Ron/Hermione fans
      complaining Harry referred to their constant bickering as
      unresolved sexual tension. Harry's problem is that since he ended
      up with Ginny in the future, Ron with Hermione, Neville with
      Hannah, ect. Is that he just assumes it's going to happen again. He
      knows he'll have to put some effort into getting Ginny, but
      everything else will sort itself out the way it was before,
      ignoring any changes he might make. It's like someone looking back
      on Lily and James and saying that Lily had liked him for awhile but
      waited until he was less arrogant to go out with him. It may or may
      not be true, but since the end result is marriage and kids, that's
      what he's going to assume. Besides, it was just one comment from
      someone who expects them to hook up in the future, not an in-depth
      pro-Ron/Hermione argument. Neville calling it a lover's spat was
      just trying to embarrass them so they'd shut up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Other note: Hey, last week this story totally made it to the
      one-year mark! Wow, I honestly thought I would have gotten bored by
      this point and quit…Miracles happen, I guess. :p</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, you're Dennis Creevey then?" Harry asked politely, looking
      at Colin's younger brother. The small boy had never really forgiven
      him for Colin's death since – according to him – Colin wouldn't
      have snuck back into Hogwarts in the first place if it hadn't been
      Harry's decision to have the battle. Harry wasn't entirely sure
      about that, but since he'd mostly ignored Colin due to sheer
      annoyance and he had so obviously idolized him, there was some
      lingering guilt there. He had already made the effort to be nicer
      to Colin himself but he figured it wouldn't hurt to do some work
      with Dennis, either.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh-huh," Dennis confirmed, nodding excitedly. "I fell off the
      boat on the way up here and Colin said the giant squid pushed me
      back in! Isn't that awesome?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is quite a story," Harry conceded. "Of course, my own boat
      ride was on a nice, calm night without any near-drownings and I
      think it would have been a much pleasanter experience, but I can't
      really tell people about it because they don't care. You, however,
      can use your story to terrify all the little first years for the
      next six years."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dennis' eyes widened in anticipation. "Awesome!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is Harry Potter, Dennis," Colin introduced reverently.
      "He's probably insane, but really cool. If you ever get really
      bored, go find him and something exciting is sure to follow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was, Harry reflected as he moved back to his own seat, better
      than being sought out because of his evil facial disfigurement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do hope this year's batch of Gryffindors are up to scratch,"
      Nearly Headless Nick remarked idly. "We don't want to break our
      winning streak, do we?" He paused. "Of course, that's not bloody
      likely with Harry here, but it wouldn't do to get overconfident,
      would it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I just want you to know that I really hate you right now,"
      Harry glared at the insensitive ghost, who looked remarkably
      unconcerned. If looks could petrify, though…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The opening feast was, of course, fantastic and Harry was fully
      engrossed in it when he heard Hermione horror-struck screech.
      Alarmed, Harry's head shot up in time to hear her say, "There are
      house-elves <em class="calibre8">here</em>? Here at <em class="calibre8">Hogwarts</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Certainly," Nick said, looking surprised at her reaction. "The
      largest number in any dwelling in Britain, I believe. Over a
      hundred."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've never seen one!" said Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, they hardly ever leave the kitchen by day, do they?" said
      Nearly Headless Nick."They come out at night to do a bit of
      cleaning ... see to the fires and so on ... I mean, you're not
      supposed to see them, are you? That's the mark of a good house-elf,
      isn't it, that you don't know it's there?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stared at him. "But they get <em class="calibre8">paid</em>?" she said.
      "They get <em class="calibre8">holidays</em>, don't they? And - and sick leave, and
      pensions and everything?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville was beginning to look a little pale. "Careful Hermione.
      What you're talking about sounds suspiciously like a
      <strong class="calibre9">union</strong>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione looked a little confused as to why that was a bad thing
      before she remembered the poor boy's Boggart. "Oh, sorry," she said
      apologetically. "But don't they get some kind of compensation for
      their work?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They get more work and accommodations," Ginny replied. "And
      they really don't want anything else."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dobby does," Hermione insisted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And Dobby gets paid," Ron pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione looked down at her mostly untouched plate of food, then
      pushed it away from her in disgust. "I will not be a part of this
      slave labor," she announced.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, you really didn't seem to have a problem with the
      Weasley's House Elf when you stayed with them over the summer,"
      Harry pointed out. "Or did you import all your meals?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione flushed. "That's different."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know that your mother treats Slinky kindly and she's always
      so happy," Hermione replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Knowing it would only make an annoying situation worse, Harry
      wisely resisted the urge to point out that Slinky's happiness could
      very well just be a sign of a thorough indoctrination and Slinky
      didn't know any better. Instead he asked, "You really think Mrs.
      Weasley treats House Elves better than Professor Dumbledore?
      Seriously, he hired Dobby for real wages and he was willing to pay
      quite a bit more than Dobby was willing to accept, so he had to
      talk him down. If the other Elves wanted it, they could get the
      same deal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione sniffed. "Just because none of you care about social
      justice-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We talked about this, remember?" Harry interrupted. "Baby
      steps. Going on a hunger strike won't make the House Elves want
      freedom any quicker and pushing for immediate emancipation would
      just freak them out. Instead, you should try studying the laws and
      policies regarding them and work towards outlawing House Elf
      corporal punishment," he suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine," Hermione snapped, realizing that Harry had a good point
      and reluctantly picking her fork back up. "But for the record, I am
      NOT happy about this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Soon, Dumbledore stood up and Harry automatically tuned out the
      list of rules and tedious announcements.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is also my painful duty to inform you that the inter-house
      Quidditch Cup will not take place this year," Dumbledore was saying
      when Harry finally tuned back in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Harry burst out loudly. As everyone turned to stare at
      him, he figured he might as well go for broke. "But my scar said
      that the Quidditch Pitch shouldn't be occupied until around March
      or so! Surely the Beauxbatons and Durmstrang students coming in for
      the Triwizard Tournament aren't demanding we cancel our ONE sport.
      I mean, for God sakes Krum is a professional Quidditch player!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a shocked silence, then an outbreak of whispers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville groaned. "Harry Potter: Thunder Stealer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry snorted. "You want to talk about thunder stealers? What
      about him?" he pointed to the door, which immediately flung open,
      revealing what appeared to be Alastor Moody.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry quietly nudged the twins, who were sitting a few seats
      down from him. "Hey," he whispered. "I'm feeling mildly paranoid.
      Can you do me a favor and make sure that's really him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred and George exchanged looks and shrugged. Fred pulled out
      the Marauder's Map under the table, muttered the password, and
      examined it for a moment before wiping it clean again. "Yeah,
      that's him. Alastor Moody."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Damn," Harry swore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">George raised his eyebrows. "That's…a bad thing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "It's unexpected."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We like unexpected," Fred told him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well I don't," Harry said frankly. "I prefer my chaos to be
      organized."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's such a contradiction of terms," George said, shaking his
      head sadly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He might be onto something, though," Fred mused
      thoughtfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"May I introduce our new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher,
      Professor Moody," Dumbledore said brightly. He paused for a moment.
      "And yes, Hogwarts does have the pleasure of hosting the Triwizard
      Tournament this year. So thoughtful of Mr. Potter to inform us
      all…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If it had been anyone else, Harry would have bet that the old
      Headmaster would have been annoyed. Seeing as it was him,
      however…Dumbledore honestly seemed to think he was being
      considerate</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Typical.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Age line?" Fred moaned. "What does he MEAN there's an age
      line?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's for our own good, really," Angelina told him,
      smirking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He glared at her. "You're only saying that because you're
      already seventeen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Angelina crossed her arms unrepentantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's got to be a way to beat the age line," George insisted.
      "We've just got to find it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know how to get past it," Harry spoke up. "And I plan on
      entering." After all, he reasoned, there was still a chance he
      would be entered since the Third Task was such a perfect kidnapping
      opportunity (he didn't think he'd changed anything as far as the
      Tournament itself was concerned and the Third Task was
      traditionally a maze of some sort anyway) so he might as well do it
      willingly. And since an Aging Potion wouldn't fool the Age Line as
      it could tell how old you really were, it should be able to tell he
      was in his twenties and let him by no problem. Obviously they
      hadn't thought to do anything to stop people of age from entering
      people who weren't, but then he supposed that since most people who
      could enter would, they wouldn't want to lessen their chances by
      adding more applicants. Now he only had a month to figure out how
      to trick the Goblet into believing there was a fourth – or fifth,
      depending on whether one of Voldemort's followers still struck –
      school. Wouldn't that piss everyone off, though, having three
      Hogwarts champions versus one Beauxbatons and one Durmstrang
      contestant. He vaguely hoped it wouldn't start an international
      incident. If it did…oh well. Better that than a Voldemort
      incident.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You do?" Fred asked, a little skeptical.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How?" George demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smirked. "Now, now. That would be telling. For five
      Galleons I'll be willing to enter anyone who wants me to. Spread
      the word."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry always welcomed the chance to hone his BS abilities and so
      was quite looking forward to his first Divination class. Hermione
      had dropped at the end of last year, of course, but since she was
      still taking Muggle Studies, the two of them were still using a
      Time Turner to get to their one class more than everyone else was
      taking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good day," Professor Trelawney greeted them ethereally. She
      turned to Harry, who was her favorite pupil. Well, she probably
      would have liked Luna, but the Ravenclaw had opted against taking
      Divination as she felt that the class would be too structured for
      such a mysterious phenomena as the Inner Eye. "You are preoccupied,
      my dear," she said mournfully. "My Inner Eye sees past your brave
      face to the troubled soul within. And I regret to say that your
      worries are not baseless. I see difficult times ahead for you, alas
      ... most difficult ... I fear the thing you dread will indeed come
      to pass ... and perhaps sooner than you think ..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know," Harry agreed sadly. "I just heard that Ludo Bagman is
      going to be a judge in the Triwizard Tournament and he's bet the
      goblins that I'll win."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You aren't even entered," pointed out Neville.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bagman got a great deal," Harry shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So…about that whole 'you'll enter anyone' thing…can you get me
      in the Tournament?" Ron asked hopefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can get you into the running," Harry confirmed. "As long as
      Hermione doesn't find out, because I don't want to have to deal
      with her complaining that I'm 'cheating' or some other such
      nonsense until afterwards." He shuddered. "She might
      even…<span>tell on me</span>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uncool," Ron agreed. "So I'll get you the five galleons by next
      month and don't even THINK about trying to give me a 'best friends
      discount' because I already owe you enough."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alight," Harry agreed. "Neville?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The other boy snorted. "Please. Why would I want to go up
      against the finest Hogwarts, Beauxbatons, and Durmstrang has to
      offer?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because you're stupid?" Harry suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville glared at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I didn't mean you, per se," Harry backtracked hurriedly. "I
      just meant, that's why everyone who's not a sixth year who just
      barely missed the cut off like the twins wants to enter. They just
      want the prize money, and maybe the fame. They're not thinking
      about the competing against the best of the best and the chance
      they could die."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Am I right in saying, my dear, that you were born in
      mid-winter?" Trelawney's voice cut through their conversation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well…" Harry trailed off. "I, personally, was born in July. My
      scar, however, was born on December 31st."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought your scar was born on Halloween," Lavender said,
      puzzled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, no," Harry corrected. "That's just when I got it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And that' not when it was born?" Dean raised an eyebrow
      quizzically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, it was born on New Year's Eve," Harry repeated, annoyed.
      "Don't you people listen?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We do," Parvati assured him. "You just make no sense."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's not to get?" Harry demanded. "My scar was born on New
      Year's Eve and I got it on Halloween. Seems simple enough."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know what?" Seamus asked. "Never mind. This will not be
      worth it, I can tell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Spoilsport," Harry muttered bitterly.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't believe we have so much homework," Ron complained.
      "Just because Trelawney can't take a joke…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You told Lavender you wanted to see her anus," pointed out
      Neville. "What did you expect?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione, who had been shoveling food into her mouth as quickly
      as possible, looked up sharply. "He said
      <em class="calibre8"><strong class="calibre9">WHAT</strong></em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, don't you start," Ron said irritably. "She already hexed me
      for it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's no less than you deserve," Harry told him frankly. "You
      know, in the Muggle World that would be considered sexual
      harassment and you could get into all sorts of legal trouble."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was a JOKE!" Ron cried.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was a stupid one," Neville said bluntly. "And Ginny heard
      about it from Parvati, so she's out for your blood as well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh dear God…" Ron groaned, burying his head in his arms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've got to run," Hermione said, standing up. "I'm going to the
      library."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought you didn't have any homework," Neville said,
      surprised.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't. This is for…something else," Hermione said evasively,
      heading towards the exit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, I should probably warn you that I trademarked SPEW
      over the summer," Harry called after her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She stopped, looking a little disappointed. "You did? Why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I started a Grammar Nazi organization. Stop People Abusing
      Words," Harry explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That would be SPAW, now SPEW," Hermione pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I spelled 'Abusing' with an E," Harry grinned. "It seemed
      ironic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And…this went over well with the Grammar Nazis?" Hermione
      couldn't believe it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "It has the Harry Potter name attached to it;
      why wouldn't it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione just shook her head and stormed off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No sooner had she left than Fred, George, and Lee Jordan
      descended upon them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Moody! How cool is he?" Fred asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And still Moody, we checked," George added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We had him this afternoon," Lee told Harry, Ron, and
      Neville.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What was he like?" Harry asked, honestly curious. He'd never
      had Moody as a teacher, after all, but Crouch was pretty good and
      he wanted to know how similar the two teaching styles were.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The three older boys exchanged a look full of meaning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Never had a lesson like it," said Fred mysteriously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He KNOWs, man," said Lee.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He knows what it's like to be out there <strong class="calibre9">doing</strong>
      it," George said, his voice awe-filled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's see it all," said Fred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Amazing," Lee concluded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So…he started a cult, then?" Harry asked innocently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Review Please!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
