<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Oh God Not Again pt2 - Oh God Not Again! Chapter 38, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Oh God Not Again pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s13" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 38</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: I do not own Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: By Harry's scar being born on the 31st of December, I
      meant that the scar is a Horcrux and Riddle was born then. Also, I
      was looking over Book Four when I was writing this and I noticed
      that Ron and Harry seemed to think Snape having 'seemed to have
      attained new levels of vindictiveness over the summer' was because
      he didn't get the DADA job again. Uh, hello? Sirius escaped from
      right under his nose right after exams and he can't even say
      anything because Dumbledore helped him. How do they not realize
      that's going to cause some bitterness? And that's not even counting
      the fact it's <em class="calibre8">Moody</em> (or supposed to be) since they have no
      way of knowing of Snape's…legal troubles… at that point.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry might have been looking forward to Actual Moody's first
      class – and he knew it was still Actual Moody as he had had the
      twins check just that morning. He was having them check so often in
      fact that they started getting a little annoyed and so he started
      paying them every time they did so. Naturally, they took that to
      mean 'seek Harry out at every available opportunity and assure him
      that Moody is Moody', but Harry didn't care. The twins needed the
      money for their awesometastic future joke shop. Anyway, Harry might
      have been excited, but not excited enough to actually show up
      early. Unlike the rest of the class. Even Hermione had had Neville
      and Ron drag her out of the library so she could stand outside the
      classroom in anticipation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry actually showed up after Moody did, but before the bell
      had rung. His friends looked disappointed at his apparent apathy
      and made him sit in the front with them as punishment. Okay, maybe
      <em class="calibre8">they</em> didn't view it as punishment, but he was a normal
      teenager – well, sort of. Not at all, actually, but it was the
      thought that counted – and as such sitting in the front was never,
      ever something he wanted to do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've got one year to teach you how to deal with Dark-" Moody
      was explaining when Ron so very rudely interrupted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, aren't you staying?" he blurted, sounding upset. Harry
      wondered about that. They hadn't even been in his class for two
      minutes and Ron already wanted him to be their teacher forever?
      Then again, if the stories he'd been hearing about Moody's class
      all week (all vague, of course) were any indication, Moody knew his
      way around publicity too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody shot Ron an 'are you stupid?' look but managed to restrain
      himself from making the biting comment that he so very clearly
      wanted to. "Does anybody want to answer that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry started to raise his hand, but Neville beat him to it.
      "Didn't Voldemort put some sort of curse on the position because he
      threw a hissy fit after Dumbledore realized he was evil and didn't
      give him the job? That's what Professor Black said."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…I knew that…" Ron lied. Harry was rather impressed that even
      though Ron might have been the only one of the eight Gryffindors in
      their year not to get the fifty points Sirius promised for saying
      'Voldemort', everyone else now used that name with such regularity
      that Ron had stopped twitching some time in early December.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody looked amused. "Sirius always was too reckless for his own
      good…Yes, Voldemort did indeed curse the position some forty years
      ago. Seeing as the curse was successfully thwarted for the past two
      years by people voluntarily leaving and having a one-year contract,
      I also plan to stay for only a year. I may come back in a few years
      if retirement proves to be too dull, but you'll be out of school by
      then so it won't matter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are we going to get the Imperius Curse cast on us?" Harry asked
      curious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody looked at him suspiciously. "How did you know that? Have
      you been talking to the other classes? Because if I found out they
      ruined this for you-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, no," Harry assured him. "It's just that from what I can
      tell, surviving the Avada Kedavra gives you a psychic scar." He was
      a bit surprised the lesson would be the same. Then again, he
      supposed that gave credit to Crouch's acting skills the first time
      around.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And he's made a career of stealing other people's thunder,"
      Neville added helpfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is that so?" Moody looked as skeptical as everyone did when
      hearing that for the first time. Well, more skeptical of what Harry
      had said then what Neville dd.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "Find me another survivor to prove me
      wrong."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know two of the three Unforgiveable Curses; do you know the
      third as well?" Moody asked him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Cruciatus Curse," Harry said shortly. "Nasty piece of work,
      that, and it will leave you shaking for hours." Seeing everyone's
      curious glances, he quickly added, "And no, I'm not going to
      discuss my experience with it, nor do I feel up to explaining what
      those are to those who have somehow managed to go at least four
      years in the wizarding world without learning the three curses that
      will earn you a one-way ticket to Azkaban for using…in most
      circumstances."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry only half-listened as Ron, Neville, and then Parvati
      explained what the three curses actually did and Moody
      demonstrated. The dead spider was disturbing, the tortured spider
      was giving him flashbacks, and the tap-dancing spider was mildly
      amusing, but mostly horrifying.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't think Neville looked nearly as bad as he had the
      first time he saw the giant spider being tortured, but he still
      looked really pale and was trembling slightly. Harry shot him a
      reassuring smile, which the other boy weakly returned. Being
      confronted with a visual reminder of his parents' fate would never
      be easy for him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For the record," Harry said, as no one else seemed inclined to
      break the uneasy silence that had descended upon them. "I would
      like to say to everyone who thought I was making up that my Boggart
      fear of green light was actually the Avada Kedavra…I SO told you
      so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Hermione rolled her eyes. "Because you're just a
      bastion of truthfulness who has never once given us any reason to
      doubt you, ever."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm glad you've finally come to realize that, Hermione," Harry
      beamed at her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, Harry?" Ron said. "I think she was being sarcastic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed and shook his head sadly. "You've come a long way
      in your quest to correctly identify sarcasm, young grasshopper, but
      you've still got a long way to go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron just blinked stupidly at Harry. "…Did you just call me a
      grasshopper?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, never mind…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"CONSTNAT VIGILANCE!" Moody suddenly screamed out. Everyone but
      Harry – who had experienced it before – jumped about a foot. "You
      see, if mere shouting can cause such an extreme reaction, than you
      are clearly completely unprepared for the world of combat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But…we're at peace," Lavender pointed out hesitantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody smiled knowingly. "We're always at peace…until war breaks
      out. The Dark Side rarely gives us advanced notice before
      attacking."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wisely turned his laughter at the most likely inadvertent
      Star Wars reference into a coughing fit, but Moody still eyed him
      suspiciously. Then again, seeing as how this was Moody and Harry
      was hiding something, he figured he might well get used to it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The class ended without Moody using the Imperius on them. Since
      Moody confirmed that he would be using it on them, Harry couldn't
      figure out if it was because he was mad that Harry had, as Neville
      so aptly put it, 'stolen his thunder' or if the lecture on the
      Unforgivable was a different lesson than the practical.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Since Neville still looked upset and Harry knew exactly why but
      that Neville didn't exactly want people to know, Harry suggested
      they head outside and they spent a very relaxing rest of the
      afternoon down by the lake.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">That night, Harry, Ron, and Neville finally got around to doing
      that extra Divination homework Ron had gotten them. Ron and Neville
      were making things up haphazardly but Harry was putting some real
      effort into his…or so he thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, you've got 'I will be besieged by the stupidity of the
      general population' four times this month," Ron pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?" Harry said mildly. "Only four times? This must be a
      good month, then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're not supposed to do repeat fates," Neville reminded
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, Professor Trelawney will understand," Harry said airily.
      "She faces the same problem in regards to Divination, you
      know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You've been going here for four years now and you're STILL
      taking issue with the fact no one else can keep up with your
      insanity?" Neville was incredulous. "Well...except for Luna, of
      course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "Apparently so. Or so my scar insists and I know
      better than to doubt it by now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, what are Fred and George doing?" Ron asked, thoroughly
      bored by the assignment. Harry didn't think it would be taking the
      other boy nearly as long as it was if he stopped making every day
      so damn epic. If Ron's month got any MORE tragic than their
      Professor might just decide that Ron was the student destined to
      die young from their year that she had somehow missed because he
      was being overshadowed by Harry - as per usual. Ron, superstitious
      as he was, would probably believe her and then they'd have to
      endure weeks and months of him bemoaning his fate until he might
      very <span>well</span> die...from being strangled to death by his
      irate friends.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced over at the twins, who appeared to be plotting.
      "I'm guessing they're planning their future business. Interrupt
      them at your own risk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No thanks, I'm good here," Ron said quickly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville snorted. "Finally, he shows some survival
      instincts!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Be fair," Harry deadpanned. "He's lived with them all his life.
      It's more twin instincts than anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True," Neville agreed solemnly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey!" Ron protested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm finished!" Hermione announced, bounding into the Common
      Room. She glanced at Ron's paper. "You appear to be drowning
      twice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a good thing Dean's a qualified lifeguard then," Ron said
      amiably. "Still…you'd think I'd learn after the first time…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't you think it's obvious you made this up?" Hermione
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Way to judge, Hermione," Harry huffed. "Just because you
      couldn't last a year in the class doesn't mean you should belittle
      those of us with actual talent."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione glared at him. "By your own admission,
      <strong class="calibre9">you</strong> have no talent in the class."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ron does," Harry countered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, Hermione, what's in the box?" Neville inquired quickly,
      preventing a full-blown argument.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Funny you should ask," Hermione said, glaring at Harry. She
      took off the lid and revealed the horribly familiar sight of fifty
      or so multi-colored SPEW badges. Only they didn't say SPEW,
      obviously, since Harry had trademarked it. He should have known
      better than to hope that that alone was enough to stop Hermione
      crusade on behalf of House Elves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"SHOE?" Ron asked, confused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop Hurting Our Elves," Hermione beamed. "You like it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, no one's going to take an organization called SHOE
      seriously," Neville said frankly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not 'shoe', it S-H-O-E," Hermione corrected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, people aren't going to care," Harry told her. "It's
      easier to just say 'shoe'."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't really care what scheme Hermione had cooked up to
      do this and figured he could always get a recap from Neville
      later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So…will you join?" Hermione looked so hopeful that he almost
      said yes. Then he remembered just how annoying SPEW had been and
      how crazy and idealistic the issue of House Elf rights made
      Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can I just make a donation?" Harry asked instead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione blinked. "A donation? Why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tax cut," Harry said simply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron groaned. "AGAIN with the tax cuts? Are you obsessed or
      something?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course not!" Harry denied, highly affronted. "But seeing as
      how I'm the only one of us that actually has to pay taxes, I'm the
      only one who understands that every little bit counts. I won't get
      to make SHOE a deduction if I'm a member because then it will look
      like it's my own self-interest."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You could just hire someone to do your taxes for you," Hermione
      pointed out. "That's what my parents do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah," Harry smiled. "I could. But I find better loopholes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure you do," Neville said absently. "Now, what would
      membership of this 'shoe' require us to do? Because I draw the line
      at bake sales."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione nodded. "That's fair. How do you feel about
      knitting?"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Soon came the Defense Against the Dark Arts lesson that Harry
      had been looking forward to: the chance to purportedly be
      completely immune to the Imperius Curse on the first try. Granted,
      it had really taken him four, but that sounded much less
      badass.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Isn't that illegal?" Hermione protested. "I could have sworn
      someone said something about it being a one-way ticket to
      Azkaban."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wizarding Laws don't really apply to Dumbledore," Harry
      explained. "I mean, what are they going to do? ARREST him?" He
      snorted, remembering when the Ministry had tried exactly that.
      "Good <em class="calibre8">luck</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"While I wouldn't quite go that far," Moody said neutrally.
      "It's true that no one really wants to nitpick Dumbledore's every
      action."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"NITPICK?" Hermione couldn't believe it. "This isn't nitpicking,
      this is a curse that's apparently on the same level as brutally
      torturing someone and as automatically killing them and we can't
      just-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Besides," Moody interrupted her. "If you do not wish to do this
      lesson, the door is that way. Just don't be surprised if a Dark
      Wizard uses it on you and you're completely and totally unprepared
      and helpless to resist. It's not always used by Death Eaters, you
      know. Oftentimes it's used for less obvious evil and in conjunction
      with an Oblivious."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gulping, Hermione stayed seated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry watched impassively as his classmates were all rendered
      helpless under the Imperius Curse's effects. The actions they were
      doing – imitating a squirrel, hopping around the classroom singing
      the national anthem, doing some rather impressing gymnastics, ect –
      were in and of themselves rather amusing. The underlying
      implication that his friends and classmates would be utterly
      defenseless against a Dark Wizard or even just a morally-challenged
      one was not. Finally, it was Harry's turn.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Potter," Moody growled. "You're next."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry calmly moved forward to the middle of the classroom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody raised his wand and pointed it in Harry's general
      direction. "<em class="calibre8">Imperio</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry felt the effects of the curse, of course, that blissful,
      floating feeling. Still, over the years he'd been under it so much
      – in fact, after the Second War ended Auror training mandated being
      put under the Imperius curse until you successfully fight it off
      and Harry had been put under a few times just to prove that he
      already could – that he barely noticed the effects.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Jump on the desk.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed theatrically. "You know, I would, I really would.
      In fact, under normal circumstances I think it would be a great
      homage to 'Dead Poets Society.' Just the same, I cannot – as a
      matter of principle – obey any command I receive while under the
      Imperius Curse. It just wouldn't be right."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Does that mean Harry's fighting off the Curse?" Hermione
      wondered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe Moody's just getting creative," Ron suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of COURSE Harry managed to be immune," Neville groaned. "Is
      anyone honestly surprised?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No one said anything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Impressive, very impressive. Until yesterday I could honestly
      say I'd never seen someone so resistant to the Imperius Curse
      before," Moody said thoughtfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What happened yesterday?" Seamus asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody smiled. "Yesterday I had the third year Ravenclaws and one
      Miss Luna Lovegood didn't even notice I put the Curse on her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That sounds about right," Dean agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am so proud," Harry gushed. "Luna's great."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's all the time we have for today," Moody announced. "Even
      though no one but Potter managed to beat the Imperius on their
      first try, repeated usage develops a natural resistance in everyone
      so if anyone wants to work with me to build up a resistance, stay
      after class and we'll work out a schedule."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Needless to say, Harry went down to dinner alone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: Next chapter the other schools arrive! Finally! And Harry
      actually remembers he has a godfather! Sadly, though, it doesn't
      look like anything in this world can stop Hermione's House Elf
      Crusade...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Review Please!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
