<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Oh God Not Again pt2 - Oh God Not Again! Chapter 39, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Oh God Not Again pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s14" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 39</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: I do not own Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: Wow, Luna's so awesome that half the reviews focus on her
      despite her not even being IN the chapter. :p On a not so good
      note: this is the year with <em class="calibre8">accents</em>. Keeping track of how
      to write all the accents (and making a mess of it, I'm sure) is
      going to be a nightmare, I can already tell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Viktor Krum arrived, along with the rest of the Durmstrang
      delegation and the representatives of Beauxbatons, he was
      immediately given the celebrity treatment. Harry, firm in his
      belief that the rules did not actually apply to him and somewhat
      sympathetic for the other boy (who had grown up to be a friend of
      his), meandered over to the Slytherin table and sat across from
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would introduce myself, but that would probably be as
      pointless as you introducing yourself as my scar basically serves
      as a nametag," Harry greeted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry Potter?" Krum inquired.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"See?" Harry beamed. "No need for an introduction."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or an invitation," Draco grumbled. "Go away, Potter, I was
      enjoying the look on the Weasel's face when he saw me talking to
      his Quidditch hero."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, as bad as it would be if it were just you, the fact that
      I'm not even supposed to be here but came over anywhere should
      annoy him twice as much," Harry pointed out. "Especially
      considering that he could have easily followed me but doesn't think
      he's awesome enough to get away with it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's because he's not," Draco replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Vy are you here?" Krum asked, inserting himself back into the
      conversation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hogwarts is extremely vulnerable to celebrities," Harry
      confided. "Professor Lockhart two years ago and me for the past
      three years are good examples of this. I've found the best way to
      handle this is to carry an antidote to Amortentia, do not consume
      anything that is not either sealed or other people eat as well –
      such as the food in the Great Hall – and that there is no point
      ignoring the fangirls because not only will it not make them go
      away, it will just make you seem more mysterious and them that much
      more determined to 'win you over.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I…see," Krum said, looking a bit dazed. Clearly Durmstrang
      didn't have Hogwarts' fangirl problem. Or fanboy problem for that
      matter. "Is Amortentia really such a problem here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not so much, yet," Harry admitted. "But in a few years, when
      I'm your age…here, I always carry a spare."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," Krum said, accepting the vial Harry held out. "Any
      other advice?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry considered it for a moment. "People are going to be
      begging you for autographs. I recommend you make a bunch of copies
      of a photo of yourself – possibly in Quidditch gear – and sign them
      all. Then carry them around with you so that when you're surrounded
      by autograph-seeking hordes, they don't slow you down too much. And
      if you're interested in making a little spending money, you can
      sell them instead of giving them away. And the students really
      won't mind, because the fact they have to pay for it makes it seem
      even more valuable."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Like when I sold signed wallscrolls of Harry in drag," Draco
      added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Krum looked a little confused, whether because he didn't know
      what drag was (or at least the English word for it) or because he
      didn't understand why Draco would have pictures of that, Harry
      wasn't sure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was a Boggart," he said quickly. "And it occurred to me that
      since I trademarked my name, I could totally sue you for selling
      those without my permission."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, but by the time you realized that you were getting a cut of
      the profits," Draco pointed out. "And do you REALLY want another
      lawsuit on your hands when you've got the tournament to worry
      about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose not…" Harry grudgingly conceded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You plan to enter the Trivizard Tournament?" Krum asked,
      surprised.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not like I've got much of a choice in the matter, so I
      prefer to be proactive," Harry said brightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But…the age line…" Krum reminded him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco snorted. "Like that will stop him. If anyone can find a
      way around that, Harry can."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I vish I vas back at Durmstrang…" Krum confessed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's a common first reaction," Harry assured the
      international Quidditch sensation.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"I feel accomplished," Harry declared the next day as he sat
      down to the Halloween Feast.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville looked frightened. "What did you do this time?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry still couldn't get over the fact that there was someone
      who considered him scarier than Snape. Seriously, who was the
      ex-Death Eater with the power to fail them, anyway? "I managed to
      convince about 75 percent of the non-Hufflepuff Hogwarts population
      to bet that Cedric Diggory will not be the Hogwarts champion. I
      fully intend to make a killing tonight. Apparently Voldemort's got
      people convinced that you have to be ugly to be powerful and if the
      fangirls are any indication, Cedric is really pretty."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean you didn't enter?" Hermione asked, surprised and
      ignoring the rest of what Harry had said. She hadn't heard of
      Harry's scheme to charge anyone who was underage and wanted a
      chance to enter, but she did know Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, no, I did," Harry assured her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you…DON'T think you'll win?" Ron asked, unable to believe
      Harry had voiced something that could possibly be construed as
      doubt in himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course I'll win. Who do you think I am?" Harry asked, a
      little self-mocking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But then how can <em class="calibre8">Cedric-</em>" Hermione continued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, now, that would be telling," Harry said with a grin.
      "You'll see soon enough."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Throughout the entire feast, Hermione kept pressing him for
      details, but Harry stayed mum. It was more fun to watch her get all
      worked up anyway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At last, Dumbledore stood up. "Well, the Goblet is almost ready
      to make its decision. I estimate that it requires one more minute.
      Now, when the champions' names are called, I would ask them to
      please come up to the top of the Hall, walk along the staff table,
      and go through into the next chamber where they will be receiving
      their first instructions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As he finished speaking, the flames in the Goblet suddenly
      turned red and sparks began to fly from it. A moment later, a
      tongue of flame spat out a charred piece of parchment. "The
      champion for Durmstrang will be Viktor Krum," Dumbledore read.
      After the applause had died down and the champion had disappeared
      into the waiting room, another piece of parchment was expelled.
      "The champion for Beauxbatons is Fleur Delacour."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The international Quidditch star the whole school's obsessed
      with and the Veela girl that's driving all the boys mad," Hermione
      muttered. "Why am I not surprised?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think Karkaroff even let his other students enter,"
      Harry whispered back. "He probably wouldn't have even brought them
      if he didn't need someone to row the boat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are they…<em class="calibre8">crying</em>?" Ron asked, eyeing two of the
      rejected Beauxbatons delegation. "No wonder they didn't win. That
      is SO not champion behavior."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For once, I'm with Ron," Neville said, starting to look a
      little frightened again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Hogwarts champion is Cedric Diggory," Dumbledore read off a
      piece of lined paper. Harry felt a little pleased to see such
      blatant proof of the changes he was bringing. He'd started the
      whole Muggle school supplies thing on a whim, and now everyone was
      doing it. Hurray for fads. Of course, having just made quite a bit
      of money in bets, he was almost as happy as the Hufflepuffs. Well,
      as the Hufflepuffs before he totally stole their thunder in a few
      seconds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excellent!" Dumbledore called happily. "Well, now that we have
      our three champions for our Triwizard Tournament, we can-" he was
      cut off as another parchment shot forth from the fire. "The
      champion for the Salem Witches' Academy is Harry Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a moment of silence. Harry, naturally, felt compelled
      to break it with a, "WITCHES' Academy? <em class="calibre8">God</em>, my life
      sucks…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The teacher's looked upset but the students looked more amused
      than anything. Most of them had figured that Harry would get
      himself entered, but for an all-girl's school? Well, except for the
      Hufflepuffs; they looked pissed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then the Goblet spat out a fifth name, this one again on lined
      paper. "Fred Weasley is the champion for the…Harry Potter School of
      Awesomeness," Dumbledore read automatically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whoo-hoo!" Fred yelled, jumping to his feet and high-fiving
      George and Lee. "Come on, Harry, let's go meet with our fellow
      champions!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry dutifully got up and started following him, trying to
      ignore the fact that the Hufflepuffs looked downright
      <strong class="calibre9">murderous</strong> now that Gryffindor (and Harry in
      particular) had managed to upstage them not once, but
      <span>twice</span> in less than five minutes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just before Harry disappeared into the waiting room with the
      rest of the Champions, he heard Neville remark casually, "You know
      Hermione, I could be wrong but I could have <em class="calibre8">sworn</em> Ron
      predicted something like this would happen last year…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is it?" Fleur asked immediately. "Do zey want us back in
      ze Hall?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I doubt it," Fred said glibly. "In fact, this may take quite a
      while to sort out. Fred Weasley, fifth champion, at your
      service."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fifth Champion?" Krum repeated, puzzled. "But this is the
      Trivizard Tournament."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not anymore it's not," Fred shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why are you so surprised?" Harry asked. "I told you I was
      entering last night."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I assumed you meant you vere entering as a Hogvarts student,"
      Krum replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And deprive Cedric of his precious chance for glory?" Harry
      asked rhetorically. "The Hufflepuffs would kill me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They might kill you anyway now that you sneaked two Gryffindors
      into the Tournament," Cedric pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True," Harry acknowledged. "But at least I didn't steal your
      chance to compete. And remember what you promised me about getting
      the hell out of any random graveyards you may find yourself
      in."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, yes...Somehow I doubt they will see it that way," Cedric
      said dryly. "Are you two the last champions or will we be getting
      representatives from Ravenclaw and Slytherin, too?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I figured five people was more than enough for a
      three-person tournament," Harry replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"THREE people are enough for a three-person tournament," Fleur
      insisted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have no imagination," Harry said, looking at his future
      sister-in-law-ish sadly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just then, the room was set upon by Luna and several adults:
      Ludo Bagman, Crouch, Moody, Snape, Dumbledore, Madame Maxifne,
      Karkaroff, McGonagall, Sirius, and Lockhart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So why are you here again, Gilderoy?" McGonagall was
      asking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm here in my official capacity of Headmaster," Lockhart
      explained with his trademark smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape snorted. "You? Headmaster? Of what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Harry Potter School of Awesomeness, of course," Lockhart
      explained. "And, as you can see my champion is right here. Harry,
      it's been too long."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked a little embarrassed. "Actually…I was entered under
      an American school…Fred here is your champion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart peered intently at Fred. "I remember you," he said
      finally. "Your joke shop will be a huge hit, I can tell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred beamed proudly and instatnly revised his opinion of his
      mother's celebrity crush.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't believe you never told me you were a witch, Harry,"
      Sirius said, sounding wounded. "I'm your godfather! You're supposed
      to tell me these things!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, maybe I would have if you hadn't cruelly abandoned me for
      most of my life while you went off living it up in Majorca," Harry
      shot back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I said I was sorry!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought he vaz in Azkaban," Madame Maxime sounded
      confused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He rewrote his personal history," Moody explained. "Just go
      with it. This will probably already taken far longer than it
      should."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can <em class="calibre8">I</em> rewrite my history?" Karkaroff sounded hopeful,
      no doubt thoroughly fed up by everyone always bringing up his Death
      Eater past.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Moody's answer was blunt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But HE did!" Karkaroff pouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"HE doesn't have a Dark Mark," Moody replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That really was an unfortunate tattoo choice," Luna
      sympathized.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What iz SHE doing here?" Fleur demanded, pointing at Luna. "If
      she iz ze <strong class="calibre9">sixth</strong> Triwizard Champion, then I am
      leaving now, magical contract or no."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, no, I didn't enter," Luna said innocently. "I was just
      talking with Headmaster Lockhart about doing my third year at the
      Harry Potter School of Awesomeness. He said that that was fine but
      since the student body was spending the year at Hogwarts because of
      the Tournament, I would need to continue classes with the
      Ravenclaws."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How is it, Dumbledore, that you get THREE Hogwarts champions?
      Two would be bad enough, but with three you're over half the
      competition!" Karkaroff demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Technically, only Cedric is a Hogwarts champion," Fred pointed
      out. "I'm from the Harry Potter School of Awesomeness and Harry's
      from Salem's Witches Academy." He burst into laughter again at
      that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So it's not bad enough that I have to be American, I have to be
      witch too?" Harry complained. "Someone up there hates me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You probably deserve it," Sirius said supportively. "But hey,
      at least we went to Las Vegas over the summer. Imagine how much it
      would suck if you had to be an American girl and didn't even manage
      THAT."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True," Harry conceded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Regardless of what school you were entered under, you are still
      students of Hogwarts!" Karkaroff burst out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And we were under the impression zhat zhe Age Line would keep
      out zhe younger students," Madame Maxime added. "I do not know how
      old the red-haired boy iz, but the ozher one is clearly far too
      young for zhis!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're just jealous you didn't figure out a way to beat the
      system," Harry said flatly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If we had been able to enter those who were not of age we
      would, of course, have brought along a wider selection of
      candidates from our own schools," Karkaroff said, his eyes cold.
      Not as cold as Draco's mom's were whenever Harry saw her, but cold
      nonetheless.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, so you think a fourth year is such a threat you'd need to
      bring along other students to even it out? And whatever happened to
      all that faith in Krum?" Harry wondered rhetorically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do not go around blaming Dumbledore for Potter's determination
      to break rules," Snape ordered softly. "He's been crossing lines
      ever since he arrived here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To be fair, lines have been crossing me right back," Harry
      defended himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you put your name in the Goblet of Fire, Harry?" Dumbledore
      asked calmly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Harry admitted. "But I was also framed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Potter, do you actually listen to yourself before you speak?"
      McGonagall asked wearily. "You did it but you were also
      framed?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very rarely," Harry answered. "But while it is true that I
      entered myself under the Harry Potter School of Awesomeness, I
      think my reaction – as well as the fact that it's a girl's school
      and my name was entered on parchment when God knows I haven't used
      that since the beginning of second year – clearly shows that I did
      not enter under Salem Witches' Academy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or you could just be trying to throw us off the track," Snape
      pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I could, I guess," Harry agreed. "But given the amount of flak
      I'll have to take about being a teenage American witch – which
      would make me a walking cliché – it would SO not be worth it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The rules state that whosever name comes out of the Goblet has
      to compete so there's really no point arguing about it," Crouch
      said, looking very much like he'd like to leave.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I want to know 'ow he managed to cross the Age Line," Madame
      Maxime insisted. "Unless Dumbly-door made a mistake?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dumbledore did not make a mistake," McGonagall snapped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is possible," Dumbledore said politely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, he didn't," Harry assured them. "I'm just more creative
      than that. I would tell you how I did it, but then you'll cover
      your bases next time and I think that if anyone else were to have
      need to get past an Age Line and stumble across my method for doing
      so, they deserve to be able to use it in peace." After all, time
      travel was kind of extreme if you just wanted to enter a lousy
      competition. If someone went through all that trouble anyway, let
      them enter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I insist on resubmitting the names of all my students,"
      Karkaroff spoke up. "I want two more students and I'm sure Madame
      Maxime wants them as well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The French Headmistress nodded her assent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Goblet won't be relit until the next tournament," Bagman
      said uncomfortably. "So you really <em class="calibre8">can't</em> enter any more.
      And you can't leave, either, because Krum is bound to compete…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I love it how no one seems to care that someone entered me into
      a highly dangerous competition for an unknown purpose," Harry
      complained as he watched the adults argue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's the nargles that make them quibble about 'fairness' and
      'how could this happen' and ignore the more pressing question of
      'why'," Luna confided.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good thing there's no mistletoe or we wouldn't have gotten past
      'how can there be five students for a Triwizard Tournament'," Harry
      said gratefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps they are not concerned because you wanted to enter
      anyway," Lockhart suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or because they are horribly negligent. Whichever," Harry
      shrugged. "And hey, you should really have a talk with Krum while
      you're here. He doesn't really seem to have any idea how to manage
      his fame."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hm," Lockhart looked thoughtful. "And as an international
      Quidditch sensation surrounded by hormonal teenagers, that could
      definitely cause problems. Yes, I will need to speak with him at
      some point."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How long are you going to be here, anyway?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"According to the rules, as Headmaster of a competing school, I
      get to be a judge, so I should be around on and off all year,"
      Lockhart announced. "Thanks again for giving me this opportunity to
      get more good press."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't mention it," Harry said magnanimously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If it were any other student potentially in danger, they would
      probably be highly concerned," Sirius theorized. "But you go after
      trolls because you're bored."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was only the one time!" Harry protested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Review Please!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
