<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Oh God Not Again pt2 - Oh God Not Again! Chapter 42, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Oh God Not Again pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s17" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 42</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: I do not own Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: This confused some people, but when Luna said that Harry
      was taking requests at the end of the previous chapter, she meant
      that while he was flying around and annoying the dragon into
      following him, he was taking requests for broom maneuvers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Luna, wait up!" Harry called to the blonde a few feet in front
      of him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Obligingly, she stopped to wait for him. "If this is about the
      second task then I regret to inform you that you're clearly not
      obsessive enough to figure it out and I couldn't tell you either
      way. I'm under oath, you, see, all the judges are. Otherwise what
      would be the point in not telling the contestants since the various
      headmasters would tell their students anyway. Well, except for
      Dumbledore but the tradition of judges making that oath dates back
      to before Dumbledore's time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is old," Harry remarked. "And don't worry, I may not be
      obsessive enough to take the egg with my while bathing, but my scar
      was quite insistent on it so I already know what the second task
      is. Cedric should figure it out sooner or later and I saw the twins
      trying to play football after Dean explained it to them and kicked
      it into the lake so I'm sure they've already got a plan and I'm
      sure it will be epic. Or anticlimactic. Epic in its
      anticlimaticness?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about you?" Luna asked him seriously. "Do you know what
      you're going to do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "I'll figure something out. And if not I could
      always do what I did last time…but I did that with the first task,
      so…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you were also in the Pentawizard Playoffs before you went
      back in time?" Luna inquired.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, but it was called the Triwizard Tournament then and Fred
      wasn't involved-" Harry began before cutting himself off. He looked
      around to see if they were alone and – fortunately – they were. "I
      forgot you figured out my secret."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's hardly a secret given that you're practically flaunting
      your future knowledge," Luna pointed out. "But most people are
      tragically too close-minded to realize the truth."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you…don't care?" Harry asked, a little surprised.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not really," Luna answered honestly. "Out of curiosity, how
      long ago did you get back and how old were you at the time?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was twenty-three when I got back about a month before my
      first year," Harry replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And did you come back to stop some terrible future?" Luna
      pressed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, if I could stop Voldemort before he killed people I care
      about, that would be great but honestly…no. Things worked out
      pretty well, I defeated Voldemort by the end of what was supposed
      to be my seventh year, and I accidentally went back in time six
      years later," Harry told her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see," Luna said, sounding unsurprised. Then again, she never
      seemed surprised. "I thought as much as you didn't appear to be
      overly traumatized by the time I met you your second year
      back."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not like I don't miss them, Luna, I do," Harry assured
      her. "But they're gone and I don't see a way back. I came back
      through the Veil in the Department of Mysteries but I don't
      actually know anything about it or how it works and neither does
      anybody else and who's to say that if I went though it again it
      wouldn't just kill me or send me to a third dimension? I don't want
      to lose everything again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I understand," Luna said softly. "Did Professor Black come back
      as well?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked. "Yes, how did you-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He broke out of Azkaban rather suddenly and unexpectedly and he
      seemed a good deal more recovered than I thought someone would be
      from such a long-term stay in Azkaban when I first met him," Luna
      explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So…does this change anything?" Harry asked, a little nervous.
      He may not have really been close with Luna until the end of the
      war – and then she had gone off searching for mythical creatures
      and met Rolf and hadn't moved back to England yet – and might not
      have really intended to get close to her in this time, but she
      really was the only one besides Sirius (who was in the same
      predicament, really) who could keep up with him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna considered. "Ginny and I are thirteen, Hermione is fifteen,
      and you're twenty-six or twenty-seven. Regardless of what Rita
      Skeeter's article tells you, you should put off dating until – at
      the very least – your sixth year. That way if you go with someone
      your physical age you won't be a pedophile and if you go with
      someone who is around your mental age they won't be tried as one,"
      she said finally.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good advice," Harry nodded. "To be honest, I'm really not even
      attracted to anyone my physical age right now because I look at
      them and I see a child. I've read <span>Lolita</span>, you know,
      and I do not intend to become Humbert Humbert."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna nodded her approval. "So what did you want to talk about
      before we got sidetracked talking about the fact that you're from
      the future?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hm?" Harry looked confused for a second. "Oh, right. I wanted
      to know how you managed to become a judge. I mean, not like I don't
      have complete faith in you, but I don't get why some American
      Headmistress you've never met would be willing to entrust you with
      representing her school."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that's quite a simple story, really," Luna began. "The
      Headmistress didn't even know about her school's technical
      participation until I informed her. She sent me a polite note back
      thanking me for informing her and then inquiring whether or not she
      would be required to do something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what did you say?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I told her that no, you wouldn't really need anything but that
      she had a right to serve on the panel of judges. She replied that
      she was quite busy and had no real interest in judging the
      Playoffs. I asked if there was anyone she would like to appoint as
      her proxy and she asked why didn't I just do it since I as the one
      who brought it to her attention in the first place. I'm not sure
      she even realized I was a student and she certainly seemed to be
      rather disinterested in the whole affair," Luna concluded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wow. So you just lucked into the position, then?" Harry
      clarified.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna shrugged. "Pretty much. Life works in interesting ways,
      doesn't it? It could have been anyone, really, but I was the only
      one who thought to contact the Headmistress."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well congratulations, I'm sure you'll do amazing," Harry told
      her sincerely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Flattery will not make me stop docking you points for showing
      off, Harry," Luna said sternly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know what you're talking about," Harry liked
      virtuously. "But while we're on the subject of judging…how in the
      world did the twins get away with both of them competing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Goblet selected Fred Weasley as a champion and they were
      both Fred Weasley," Luna explained. "I feel we should all be
      grateful that this isn't a public school and the name entered
      wasn't 'John Smith' or we would easily have half a dozen boys
      competing under one name."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Even if that is technically true and without a doubt awesome,"
      Harry began, "the judges still had to approve it. There's no way
      Madame Maxime or – God forbid – <em class="calibre8">Karkaroff</em> would have
      allowed it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They voted against it," Luna conceded. "As did Dumbledore. I
      think he's still a little sore at how easily you got past his Age
      Line, personally. There are seven judges, though: one from each of
      the schools, Bagman, and Crouch. I voted for the idea because the
      twins always work better together and we're so far past the
      'spirit' of the rules that it's ridiculous. Lockhart voted for them
      because they represent his new school. Bagman said something about
      how he owed them money before also voting for them and Crouch said
      that since there was nothing in the rules against it and this was
      already extremely unconventional, he would allow it. That's 4-3 in
      favor of them being allowed to compete together and so they
      did."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So the only reason that they got away with it was because two
      of them had personal reasons for doing it?" Harry said, shaking his
      head ruefully. "I might've known they'd find a way to turn Bagman's
      bet with them to their advantage…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed, they are fine champions," Luna said beaming.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about me?" Harry demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna gave him a look of wide-eyed innocence. "I've yet to see
      you in the school uniform, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"School uniform?" Harry repeated, feeling slightly uneasy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yes," Luna said earnestly. "It's not that bad, really. You
      should see the Japanese school's outfits…they're practically just
      oversized yet skintight shirts…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had never expected to owe a Death Eater a debt of
      gratitude. Well, except Snape, but he was kind of on everyone's
      side, so that didn't really count. Now, however, he was finding
      himself strangely grateful to Crouch Jr. or whoever had taken his
      place for not making him a <em class="calibre8">Japanese</em> girl.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey Sirius," Harry greeted his surprisingly still-employed
      godfather.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Said godfather gaze him a puzzled glance. "Did you want
      something, Mr.…?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very funny, Sirius," Harry said, crossing his arms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's Professor Black to you, Mr. Potter," Sirius said
      coldly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rolled his eyes. "You're feeling neglected."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…Maybe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've been busy!" Harry pointed out. "What with the first task
      and the aftermath and all that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's no excuse for abandoning your only family in the world,"
      Sirius sniffed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, so the Dursley's don't count?" Harry asked
      rhetorically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, they don't," Sirius replied. "They lost all counting rights
      when they made you sleep in a cupboard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dudley's not all that bad…" Harry defended. Well, not after he
      got back from being in hiding the year Harry defeated
      Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe not in the future," Sirius allowed, looking skeptical.
      "And you haven't come to see me outside of class in practically
      forever!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was only a week, Sirius," Harry pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Exactly!" Sirius cried dramatically. "Knowing you, you could
      have managed to die at <em class="calibre8">least</em> four times in that time. And
      that's not even counting the dragons…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Speaking of…what did you think of the first task?" Harry
      inquired, interested to hear what the only other person who knew
      how the task had originally gone (even if he was pretty sure he
      hadn't actually witness it) had to say.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, aside from your blatant cheating-" Sirius began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There are no rules about being sent back in time! Trust me; I
      checked," Harry objected. "After all, I wouldn't want to
      inadvertently break a binding magical contract, now would I?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I meant the-" Sirius tried again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And summoning's kosher, too, even if it was a little audacious
      to have the broom in the stadium with me already," Harry
      interrupted again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, great, but again: not what I meant. I meant how you
      totally copied Krum's spell. Even if it did end up working far
      better for you than it did for him," Sirius said thoughtfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Me?" Harry asked, shocked. "Copy <em class="calibre8">him</em>? But…but I went
      first! And unless you seriously think someone at taciturn as him
      would go around blabbing what his plan was – and in front of one of
      his fellow competitors, too! – then there really would be no way
      for me to know. Are you accusing me of being psychic or something
      now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, but the twins tell me that your 'scar' is pulling for a
      Hogwarts student victory and so I wouldn't put it past it to let
      Krum's plan slip," Sirius deadpanned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry winced. "Damn. Point."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius grinned a bit smugly. "Yes, well aside from that I've got
      to say that I'm a bit disappointed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry groaned. "Not you too! Honestly, if you start in on me
      about showing off like Luna did then I am going to start hexing
      things."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius looked surprised. "Me? Be upset about showing off?
      Never!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then what was the problem?" Harry wondered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You did the exact same thing you did before!" Sirius burst out.
      "I mean, I'm willing to bet that you didn't take requests the first
      time or fly quite that elaborately, but it was the same basic
      plan!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fleur, Cedric, and Krum used the <em class="calibre8">exact</em> same plan,"
      Harry sulked. "At least I had <em class="calibre8">some</em> variety."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fleur, Cedric, and Krum haven't gone through all of this
      before," Sirius pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't know that," Harry argued. "Some of the people around
      me have done some very odd things. For instance, way back in first
      year Fred slipped and said he saw Angelina in the Mirror of Erised
      and they date in the future. Neville got over his timidity rather
      quickly, Percy hasn't pulled away from his family as much, Dobby
      managed to get around all of Draco's incredibly specific orders to
      drive me from Hogwarts, Luna and I became friends a lot quicker,
      Lockhart hasn't been nearly as aggravating…any or all of these
      people could very well have come back in time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…Or they could just be responding to the situations they've
      found themselves in. It's not unusual for a teenager to have a
      crush, knowing Neville was your friend in the future meant you made
      more of an effort with him, Percy hasn't had a reason to split from
      his family yet and you kept involving him. Dobby is a House Elf and
      I'm half-convinced that all of them are as devious as Kreacher, it
      not as twisted, and your insanity and Luna's worldview complement
      each other nicely. As for Lockhart…well instead of being someone
      who he had to fool and a ticket to free publicity, you became a
      kind of pupil, kindred fame-seeker, and ticket to free publicity,"
      Sirius tried to explain. "Or, I suppose, they could have all just
      come back in time. Does it really matter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "I guess not. Luna knows we're from the future,
      by the way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius's eyes bulged. "When did this happen?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She told me on the train ride here, I think," Harry said
      vaguely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius's eyes managed to get even bigger. "AND THIS IS THE FIRST
      I'M HEARING OF IT?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged sheepishly. "…Sorry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did she know?" Sirius demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Apparently she doesn't believe in my psychic scar even though
      she believes in everything else," Harry replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, given everyone else believes in it, should you really be
      surprised?" Sirius asked sensibly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Guess not," Harry admitted. "And she didn't think you were
      traumatized enough and thought your random Halloween jailbreak was
      a bit bizarre."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius snorted. "Wait, wait, wait…Luna Lovegood called
      <em class="calibre8">me</em> bizarre? For real?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not in so many words," Harry responded. "She just said she
      didn't see why you would choose then of all times and with no
      obvious reason."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't have any obvious reason for choosing to break out
      before your third year last time, either," Sirius pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well I didn't actually know her when you broke out before, so
      who knows what she thought of the whole thing," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What was her reaction?" Sirius wanted to know.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She advised me not to be a pedophile," Harry answered,
      amused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did she now? That reminds me," Sirius said with a smirk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What reminds you?" Harry asked, wondering why he suddenly felt
      the urge to flee the scene.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I read Rita Skeeter's article about you," Sirius said
      slowly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You did?" Harry asked neutrally.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yes," Sirius nodded seriously. "Quite interesting, to say
      the least. Apparently you have not one, not two, but THREE
      potential love interests."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was quite surprised to discover this as well," Harry
      replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius ignored him. "Hermione, I can understand as you always
      spend time with her. I thought Ginny hated you, but I suppose as
      the sister of your best friend who you seek out occasionally, that
      makes sense to. And given how well you and Luna get on, maybe I
      shouldn't have been surprised."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginny doesn't hate me nearly as much anymore," Harry defend
      himself. "In fact, I was planning on asking her to the Yule Ball
      and as long as I do it properly, I think she'd agree. Especially
      considering that she'll need a date to even attend it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius gave him a long look. "Are you sure that's such a good
      idea, Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked surprised. "What do you mean? I always wished that
      I would have asked her before Neville did but since we didn't
      really know each other and she was still a recovering fangirl it
      might have been awkward, but now we're friends so what would be the
      problem?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," Sirius explained patiently to his clueless godson, "when
      boys and girls go to a Ball together and have a good time then they
      generally start dating."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginny's <em class="calibre8">thirteen</em>," Harry protested. "There's no way I
      could-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I understand," Sirius assured him. "But she won't. Unless you
      want to tell her?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry envisioned what Ginny's reaction to finding out that not
      only was he a little less than twice as old as he was supposed to
      be but that he mostly just acted the way he did out of boredom.
      "You know what, maybe I'll ask Luna. I don't think she attended
      last time because if she had I have no doubt that even though I had
      no idea who she was, her outfit would have made an impression.
      Besides, since we JUST had that anti-Lolita talk, I'm sure she'd be
      <em class="calibre8">more</em> than happy to help out…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Review Please!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
