<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Oh God Not Again pt2 - Oh God Not Again! Chapter 45, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Oh God Not Again pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s20" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 45</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: I do not own Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: Wow, I've started getting preemptive hate mail in case I
      kill off Cedric. Then again, even though most people do end up
      killing him off, he is a good guy. When I was rereading GoF I
      noticed how ridiculously likeable he was. Seriously, it's like JKR
      did that just so everyone would be sad when he died…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey guys," Colin Creevey said, clearing his throat loudly. The
      people in the Gryffindor Common Room turned to look at him
      expectantly. "I need Lee Jordan and one of Harry's friends to go
      see Professor McGonagall."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" 'One of Harry's friends'?" Hermione repeated. "She didn't say
      which?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Colin shrugged. "I don't think it matters. Since she just needed
      <em class="calibre8">someone</em> and the Second Task is tomorrow, maybe it's for
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The egg did say something about a treasure," Harry agreed.
      "So…which of you wants to be my treasure?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not it," Neville called immediately. "I know Dumbledore would
      never intentionally let anything happen to us, but things tend to
      go wrong whenever you're involved."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You say 'wrong' I say 'more interesting'," Harry demurred.
      "What about you two?" he asked his other two close Gryffindor
      friends.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're not taking this task nearly seriously enough for me to
      put my life in your hands," Hermione said frankly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry, mate," Ron apologized. "I really want to watch the Task
      and these things are always less enjoyable to witness when you
      actually take part in it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what am I supposed to do?" Harry demanded. "Luna can't do it
      because she's a judge and my three best friends can't be
      bothered."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll do it," Ginny offered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned to her, surprised. "Really? But I thought you
      didn't think much of my 'hero' abilities."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny gave him a small smile. "I've always had faith in your
      saving-people abilities, I just wish you'd be more heroic about it
      and not keep copping-out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "Yeah, well, what works works, you know?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny rolled her eyes. "One day you'll do something epic; you'll
      simply have no other choice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probably," Harry agreed. "But not until I absolutely have
      to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey Ron, shouldn't you be more concerned that Ginny's going to
      risk her life for Harry?" Neville asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why should I be?" Ron countered. "Harry's already made it clear
      that he's not looking to date right now so he can spend more time
      on his insanity."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Most people would say 'studies'," Hermione noted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, but this is Harry so no one would believe him," Ron
      pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True, but what I actually meant was Harry still doesn't seem to
      be taking this very seriously so shouldn't you be worried about
      your sister's safety if not necessarily her virtue?" Neville
      questioned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not the one who doesn't have faith in Harry's saving-people
      thing," Ron responded. "That's you and Hermione."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tell you what; if it makes you feel any better Neville I'll
      give Ginny my favorite good-luck rock," Harry offered, pulling an
      ordinary-looking brown rock out of his pocket.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You really don't have to," Ginny told him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know, but I want to. Besides, this way you know at the very
      least I'll be trying to get my rock back," Harry said seriously.
      "Please take it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny sighed. "Fine." She took the rock from Harry's
      outstretched hand and slipped it into her own pocket.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excellent," Harry beamed. "Keep it with you during the task;
      you never know when something might go horribly wrong and you'll
      need a little extra luck."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about you, Lee?" Fred asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you going to refuse to go because we're not being 'serious'
      enough?" George continued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lee scoffed. "Are you kidding me? If you were acting serious,
      I'd start to worry. Besides, you guys really want the prize money
      for your store, so I think I'm reasonably safe. One thing,
      though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Fred asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you turn me into a canary during the course of 'rescuing'
      me, then we will no longer be speaking," Lee warned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As <em class="calibre8">if</em> we would be so unoriginal," George replied,
      sounding mildly affronted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<strong class="calibre9">Good</strong>," Lee said vehemently before turning to
      Ginny. "Now, shall we go?"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"All right, Harry?" Bagman whispered right before the Second
      Task was to begin. "Know what you're going to do?" he sounded
      doubtful and Harry didn't blame him. Unlike all of the other
      contestants who were dressed in swimming-wear – except for George
      but he only half-counted as a contestant anyway – Harry was
      sweatpants and a sweatshirt. Well, it was cold so why wear less
      clothing than he needed to?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Would it make a difference if I didn't?" Harry asked
      innocently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, no, technically," Bagman said, looking deeply uneasy.
      "But just the same, I-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't worry, I have a plan," Harry promised. "It wouldn't do to
      look stupid in front of the press," he added, indicating Rita
      Skeeter and her photographer, who were sitting near the front of
      the bleachers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Looking far more relieved than he should have – even if Harry
      knew why, the man couldn't act to save his life – Bagman pointed
      his wand at his throat and muttered a quick, "Sonorus. Well, all
      our champions are ready for the second task, which will start on my
      whistle. They have precisely an hour to recover what has been taken
      from them. On the count of three, then. One…two…three!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred popped something into his mouth while Fleur and Cedric cast
      what appeared to be Bubble-Head Charms on themselves while Viktor
      transfigured his head into something rather shark-like and then the
      four of them quickly took to the water.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aren't you going to go in, as well?" George asked
      conversationally, pulling a mirror out of his pocket and glancing
      at it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aren't you?" Harry shot back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">George shook his head. "Nah, George has this part covered. I'm
      just here as moral support until he reaches Lee. What about you,
      though? You don't have anyone else to go down to get your hostage
      and – perfectly safe or not – that IS my little sister you're NOT
      trying to rescue, after all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If she heard you implying she needed saving, she would probably
      hex you," Harry pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know," George agreed. "But seeing as how she's currently at
      the bottom of the lake and probably unconscious, I think I'm
      relatively safe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For now," Harry agreed. "But not for long."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sure enough, not five minutes later a dripping wet and barely
      conscious Ginny appeared a few feet away from Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What did you DO?" George demanded. "Not only did you not go
      down there yourself but you didn't even take your wand out. How is
      she up here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smirked. "I would tell you, but then-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You'd have to kill me?" George supplied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "No, that's a little drastic, but I would
      be very put-out if I had to tell you and then explain it to the
      judges later."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Speaking of, they seem to be waving you over," George
      noted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced at the judges, who did appear to be very keen on
      speaking with him. "I'll go see what they want after checking on
      Ginny." Walking over to his 'hostage', Harry handed her a towel.
      "That wasn't so bad, was it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How long did it take you to get to me?" Ginny asked, accepting
      the proffered towel gratefully. "And why aren't you wet? If you
      have a spell to dry people off, the least you could do is use it on
      me since I was the only one who was actually willing to put my life
      in your hands."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rolled his eyes. "You would have been fine…It only took
      ten minutes because I – as you probably expected – totally used a
      cop-out. I didn't even go in the water. If you want to know what I
      did, you can come with me when I explain it to the judges."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright," Ginny agreed, following him over to where the judges
      were seated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well done, Harry, you got your hostage back in a little over
      ten minutes," Bagman congratulated him, beaming.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, it was very impressive," Crouch concurred diplomatically.
      "But seeing as how you did not venture into the water nor take out
      your wand at all, we would ask you to explain your actions so we
      can decide whether or not what you did is within the rules or
      not."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, yesterday Colin came to my friends and I and said that
      one of them needed to go see Professor McGonagall. They figured it
      must be for today and Ron, Hermione, and Neville either didn't
      think I was taking this seriously enough for them to put themselves
      in any danger or wanted to watch the Task so they refused and Ginny
      graciously agreed to go in place of them," Harry explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, I was wondering why Mr. Weasley, Miss Granger, or Mr.
      Longbottom were not the hostage as you spend the most time with
      them," Dumbledore remarked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "If Colin had said it had to be one of them then
      I'm sure one of them would have agreed to do it eventually, but
      since you weren't more specific another friend of mine stepped
      forward instead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So I'm a 'friend' now?" Ginny murmured. "I was just an
      acquaintance a couple of weeks ago."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, you agreed to be my hostage when none of my so-called
      'best friends' could be bothered," Harry pointed out. "If there was
      still any doubt, that firmly cements your 'friend' status."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good to know," Ginny told him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think it's quite telling when one's own closest friends do
      not have enough faith in him to even agree to participate in a Task
      where Albus Dumbledore himself is on hand to make sure that nothing
      goes wrong," Karkaroff remarked idly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Truly, eet ees rather unusual, especially considering 'ow zhey
      did not even know what ze Task was," Madame Maxime agreed. "But
      never mind zhat, tell us what you did."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I gave Ginny a good-luck rock as my horribly unsupportive
      friends were concerned I would somehow mess up rescuing her and as
      luck would have it, that rock turned out to be a time-activated
      Portkey," Harry continued. "Go figure, huh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, that's how you get these things done," Lockhart said
      approvingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know," Luna said slowly. "I'll have to give him points
      for creativity but take away point for a lack of overall
      effort."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Surely this is cheating," Karkaroff protested. "He used a
      bloody Portkey!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's nothing in the rulebooks again Portkeys," Crouch
      replied. "And trust me, I would know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Karkaroff looked like he wanted to say something else, but he
      stopped when he saw George walk purposely towards the edge of the
      water. He pointed his wand at the lake and shouted, "ACCIO FRED
      WEASLEY!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" 'E cannot summon ze 'ostage," Madame Maxime scoffed. "Silly
      boy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's the name of the champion," Dumbledore corrected her, his
      eyes trained on the water.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For a minute, it seemed like nothing was happening. Then Fred
      shot out of the water and crashed into his brother. He was holding
      Lee Jordan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry ran over to them. "What did you do? Madame Maxime said you
      couldn't summon your hostages and I figured that that would be the
      case but even if it wasn't, that would be a little too much of a
      cop-out for even me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can't," George agreed as Fred started gasping for air and
      dived back into the water. "But George ate some Gillyweed, swam
      down to where the hostages were, free Lee, and then tapped on a
      two-way mirror we have until he got my attention. Once that
      happened, I summoned HIM and so even though Lee couldn't be
      summoned, he was pulled along for the ride. Of course, Gillyweed
      lasts an hour or so so George is stuck in the lake until then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh give it up," Harry told him. "I know that you're really
      George."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No I'm not," George denied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then why did you summon FRED Weasley?" Harry challenged,
      knowing he had won.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because if I didn't Karkaroff would be on our case again about
      how the two of us competing is 'cheating' or something stupid like
      that and he legally changed his name so he IS Fred Weasley," George
      countered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…Touché," Harry said at last.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An hour later, and all the champions had returned with their
      hostages. Cedric returned in the middle of George's victory dance
      after time had been called and Fred's Gillyweed had worn off at
      that time as well so he had emerged from the lake with Cedric and
      Cho. Fleur made it back ten minutes after Cedric did and Viktor
      arrived fifteen minutes after that with Parvati. Harry wondered at
      Fleur's success as he vaguely recalled that he had initially
      rescued Gabrielle as she had been forced to turn back but he
      supposed that just because she had been attacked or whatever
      originally was no reason for the exact same thing to have happened
      a second time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The scores were posted as:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter 8, 5, 10, 10, 10, 7, 10.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred Weasleys 8, 5,10, 10, 9, 10, 10.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric Diggory 7, 5, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fleur Delacour 9, 5, 8, 9, 8, 8, 7.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Viktor Krum 6, 10, 7, 8, 8, 8, 8.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">from Madame Maxime, Karkaroff, Dumbledore, Crouch, Bagman, Luna,
      and Lockhart respectively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That brought the point totals up to 121 for Harry, 121 for Fred,
      113 for Cedric, 111 for Fleur, and 95 for Viktor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No one was as blatant about their biases as Karkaroff, but Harry
      got the feeling that only Dumbledore and possibly Crouch had been
      fair. Luna wasn't exactly trying to cheat, he was sure, but since
      he and the twins were the only ones to fall within the one hour
      time limit, shouldn't they get the highest scores by default?
      Clearly, Karkaroff, Madame Maxime, and Luna did not think so.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So Viktor," Harry said to him. "Why Parvati? I mean, no offense
      to her, she's great, but I know that you had liked Hermione before
      Ron asked her to the Yule Ball so you can't really have known
      Parvati for longer than three months. And even if you had, look at
      Fleur: she went to the Ball with Roger Davies and even though they
      didn't have the best time, I don't think (or at least she didn't),
      her treasure didn't even have to be a fellow student as they were
      willing to import her hostage from France."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True," Viktor agreed. "But I am not particularly close vith any
      of the other members of the Durmstrang delegation and my friends
      and family did not particularly vant to make the trip from either
      Durmstrang or Bulgaria."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That makes sense," Harry nodded. "France is right across the
      channel from Great Britain, after all; it's a much shorter
      trip."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was right: it was so much better watching the Task than
      having to be unconscious underwater in FEBRUARY," Ron announced as
      he, Hermione, and Neville finally made their way to Harry.
      "Although we really couldn't see much until the Champions were
      done."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I was right about Harry not taking this seriously,"
      Hermione noted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I took it plenty seriously!" Harry insisted. "And what's more,
      I finished the Task in ten minutes!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But if the Portkey hadn't worked, would you have had a backup
      plan?" Neville asked seriously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well…no," Harry admitted. "I did practice with creating
      Portkeys, though!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you wonder why we didn't want to do this," Hermione said,
      shaking her head at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"At least Ginny still likes me," Harry said, crossing his
      arms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was bribed with chocolate," Ginny said by way of explanation
      as she unwrapped another Hershey bar. "I've never tried Muggle
      candy before."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're missing out," Hermione told her. "Muggle candy might not
      be as exciting as its wizarding counterpart, but at least you'll
      never have it try and escape, turn you into a bird, or taste like
      vomit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville gave her a confused look. "Aren't your parents dentists?
      That means that they wouldn't really be big candy people, right? Or
      did I misunderstand what those are?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think you understand fine," Luna said, coming up behind them.
      "But you have to realize that as the daughter of a dentist,
      Hermione is honor-bound to advocate the Rotfang conspiracy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Luna," Hermione objected half-heartedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So once again you give me a crappy score," Harry noted. "This
      time I even scored lower than the guy who finished twenty-five
      minutes late!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna shrugged at him. "I told you that I was going to have to
      take points off for lack of effort. If I wasn't giving you extra
      points for finishing within the time limit, you would have gotten a
      five."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why aren't you ever this harsh on the other champions?" Harry
      demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because they actually put some work into their solutions," Luna
      responded. "Even Fred had to swim all the way to the bottom of the
      lake before George summoned him." With that, she began making her
      way back to the judge's platform.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, I'm starting to suspect I would have been better off
      asking Snape to be my representative!" Harry called after her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Possibly," she called back. "But ten-to-one he would have made
      you wear the uniform."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: So even though I'm not doing NaNoWriMo, I still just hit
      50,000 words this month with this chapter, so that's something,
      right?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Review Please!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
