<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Oh God Not Again pt2 - Oh God Not Again! Chapter 29, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Oh God Not Again pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s4" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 29</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: I do not own Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The next day at breakfast Harry was quietly bemoaning the fact
      that he'd taken three extra classes instead of two and how the
      extra homework would probably kill his social life while Ginny just
      rolled her eyes and told him she was sure he'd manage when Ron's
      voice broke through his sulking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione," he was saying. "They've messed up your timetable.
      Look – they've got you down for about ten subjects a day. There
      isn't enough time. Look, see this morning? Nine o'clock,
      Divination. And underneath, nine o'clock Muggle Studies. And then
      nine o'clock Arithmancy! How the bloody hell do you think you'll
      manage that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"With a Time-Turner, of course," Harry piped up. "I got her one
      for…Christmas last year, maybe? I definitely got her one at some
      point. Besides, I have to use one to get to both Muggle Studies and
      Divination as it apparently never occurred to anyone that some
      people might want to take both."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry!" Hermione hissed. "We're not supposed to tell people
      about that!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I already explained all about them when I got you yours,"
      Harry pointed out. "I am warning you now, though. If you don't
      throw a few extra hours in there to sleep and start going crazy and
      biting everyone's head off, I will be holding an intervention."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you going to do that?" Hermione demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, no," Harry admitted. "But I have one extra class. You
      have, like, fifty."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do not!" Hermione huffed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How many classes <em class="calibre8">are</em> you taking?" Neville asked
      curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione just crossed her arms and glared at everyone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Besides," Harry continued as if he hadn't been interrupted,
      "while we all think time travel is really cool, who here would like
      to use it for the sole purpose of doing more schoolwork?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slowly, Percy raised his hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, you so don't count," Harry told him. "Besides, if you were
      any more responsible, you'd be on faculty."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whatever do you mean?" Percy asked him delicately. "Since
      Professor Black's appointment, I was under the impression that
      there was no such criterion to teach here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "Got me there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Divination first, do you think?" Harry asked Hermione, who
      nodded and the pair followed Ron and Neville from the Great Hall.
      "My scar says it knows a short-cut and given that we're finally
      taking a class that will be able to utilize its talents, I suggest
      we listen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why not?" Ron asked. "It's not like we have any idea how to get
      there anyway."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">With Harry's shortcut, the ten minute trip only took seven and
      all too soon Harry was getting that familiar perfume-induced
      headache that he really ought to have considered before willingly
      taking Divination again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Welcome," Professor Trelawney said airily as she practically
      floated into the room. "How nice to see you in the physical world
      at last." She launched into her spiel about the inner eye and Harry
      automatically tuned out as he'd already heard some variation of
      this several times before. "You, boy," she stopped suddenly,
      pointing at Neville. "Is your grandmother well?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville looked at her strangely. "She was yesterday," he
      replied. "But at her age, who knows what various ailments may
      befall her?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Trelawney nodded approvingly. "That's a good attitude to take,
      especially considering…Well, anyway we will be covering the basic
      methods of…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Especially considering what?" Neville whispered to Harry. "Is
      she for real? Does she know something?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have no idea," Harry whispered back. "Maybe she'll catch a
      cold or break her ankle or something. Not like that's a big deal in
      the wizarding world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"By the way, dear," Trelawney looked over at Parvati. "Beware a
      red-haired man. Are you even listening young man?" she asked,
      suddenly whirling to face Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not really," Harry admitted. "But then, I'm sadly bereft of the
      Inner Eye. My scar's the one with all the talent and its paying
      plenty of attention. In fact, it said that there's going to be a
      Yule Ball next year and neither Parvati nor her sister should go
      with Ron because if they do he'll completely ignore them in favor
      of sulking because he accidentally insulted his crush in the
      process of asking her to go with him at the last minute and she was
      already going with a Quidditch Star."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry!" Ron complained. "You're supposed to be on my side!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am on your side," Harry told him. "Which is why I'll make
      sure to bug you to ask whoever you happen to like next year to the
      dance right away."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Their Professor, meanwhile, was eyeing Harry speculatively. "You
      just might succeed in this class," she said softly. "Being a Seer
      by proxy is completely unheard of, of course, but there are
      some…extenuating circumstances in your case and you having a
      direct, private link to a Seer is more than most people can hope
      for. Tell me, has your scar made any other predictions that have
      come true?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grinned. "My scar said you'd ask that and as such I've
      prepared a list." With that, he took out a piece of lined paper (to
      Hermione's consternation he and his Muggleborn clients were still
      using Muggle school supplies where they felt they would be more
      practical and the quill and parchment were the first to go,
      although it did cause some confusion when they were assigned a
      certain length essay and the professors just had to guess the
      equivalent in pages) that was covered in both sides in all the
      things he'd claimed his scar had predicted over the past two
      years.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see," Trelawney said, sounding impressed as she took the
      paper and placed it on her desk. She continued to outline the class
      to the students and Harry began playing Hangman with Ron. Since he
      couldn't possibly do that during History of Magic this year because
      he had a guardian to support, he figured he may as well get it out
      of the way now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked up as Lavender walked by holding a large silver
      teapot and placed it on the table in front of Professor
      Trelawney.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Incidentally," the Professor said casually. "That thing you are
      dreading – it will happen on Friday the Sixteenth of October." She
      quickly explained their task for the day – tea-reading – and
      concluded with a warning to Neville, "After you've broken your
      first cup, would you be so kind as to select one of the blue
      patterned ones? I'm rather attached to the pink."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are so lucky," Ron said enviously. "I hate pink. Do you
      think if I break my teacup I can get blue, too?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville just shrugged. "Hey Hermione, be my partner?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure thing, Neville," Hermione agreed absentmindedly as she
      took a sip of her tea. "This whole thing sounds very sketchy, don't
      you think? I mean it's all so vague! 'That thing you are dreading
      will happen Friday the Sixteenth of October'…it doesn't even say
      what it is that Lavender's supposed to be dreading and unless
      something happens to go wrong on that day, no one will even
      remember it!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Except you, probably," Ron murmured.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville snorted but wisely chose not to invoke Hermione's wrath
      by saying anything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Honestly," Hermione said, irritated. "Harry's 'scar' is usually
      more detailed than that!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To be fair," Harry said, hiding a smile. "My scar usually only
      shares its predictions about people I know well and Professor
      Trelawney just met us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And chances are that Lavender's going to be dreading quite a
      bit after a prediction like that," Neville added. "She and Parvati
      have always been pretty superstitious."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmph!" Hermione frowned as she turned back to her tea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm done," Ron announced handing over his teacup to Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hm," Harry peered into the cup, then quickly consulted his copy
      of <em class="calibre8">Unfogging the Future</em>. "I see…a circle, which it says
      represents a cycle beginning or ending and a rat, which I'm going
      to take to mean Wormtail so…you're going to make peace with the
      fact that Scabbers turned out to be a parent-betraying coward who
      attacked everyone last year, that's good. I also see a broom…you're
      either going to be travelling or play a lot of Quidditch."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That sounds good to me," Ron said agreeably as he picked up
      Harry's cup. "My turn. Let's see…there's an acorn-thingy…it says
      that means 'a windfall, unexpected gold' which probably just means
      you have another money-making idea soon, wouldn't surprise me. And
      I also see…a dog? Hey Neville, does this look like a dog to
      you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let me see," Neville said reaching over to take the cup and
      accidentally knocking his own off the table in the process.
      "Whoops. I was supposed to get a blue one, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Eh, don't bother," Harry said, lazily waving his wand. The cup
      instantly repaired itself, though the tea dregs were still on the
      floor. "You might want to clean that up, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Neville nodded as stood to go find a dustpan.
      "Definitely a dog," he said as he paused to look at Harry's cup
      from over Ron's shoulder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's see…a dog is…a grim?" Hermione said as she checked the
      book. "Definitely a grim. Looks like you're going to die, Harry,"
      she said casually.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your concern is touching, really," he replied
      sarcastically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did someone say 'grim'?" Trelawney asked eagerly as she hurried
      towards them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I might possibly have one," Harry conceded. "And I know
      it means 'impending doom', but it could just mean that someone's
      out to kill me…again. I don't really have anything planned out for
      this year, but I suppose it's possible someone might try. Or it
      might just be talking about my godfather."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Trelawney stared at him. "How could the grim represent your
      godfather? Do you think he is going to die?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He better not…" Harry said darkly. "But what I mean is, he's a
      dog animagus, looks just like that. There's also a key right by it,
      which means moving and since Sirius is now my official guardian and
      we spent all summer travelling, I have yet to move in with
      him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see," Trelawney looked torn between disappointment that it
      looked like she wasn't going to be able to announce Harry's death
      after all and relief that she wouldn't be killing off such a
      promising seer. Even if it was only by proxy.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, you guys go ahead to Transfiguration; Harry and I will
      meet you there after Muggle Studies," Hermione instructed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why can't you just come with us to Transfiguration and then
      rewind time to take Muggle Studies?" Ron whined, not happy at the
      thought of trying to make his way from the North Tower to
      Transfiguration with only Neville to guide him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because after Muggle Studies I still have Arithmancy and I
      don't trust Harry to have an entire class period free without
      managing to inspire chaos," Hermione shot back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So wait…we go to Muggle Studies together but then I have to
      make my way to Transfiguration alone?" Harry asked. "You trust me
      to do that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione rolled her eyes. "I admit, the plan isn't perfect, but
      I'm sure you'll manage. Now let's GO!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With that, the pair wet off down the hall. Once they reached the
      Muggle Studies classroom, they each took out their Time Turners and
      took themselves back to nine o'clock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When they entered the classroom there were only five other
      students there: Terry Boot and Michael Corner from Ravenclaw, Susan
      Bones and Ernie MacMillan of Hufflepuff, and…oddly enough, Theodore
      Nott.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you doing here?" Harry asked in surprise as he sat in
      front of the sole Slytherin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Taking the class," came the terse reply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can Slytherins do that?" Harry was incredulous.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Only since Dumbledore became headmaster," Theodore said
      dryly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry scratched his head in confusion. "But…why would you even
      <em class="calibre8">want</em> to take it? Isn't your father a Death Eater?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Theodore glared at him. For some reason, he had never really
      liked Harry and had always acted like he was bothering him. Which
      he usually was. But still. "If my father were a Death Eater he'd be
      in Azkaban. As he is not, we can only conclude that he is not. He's
      the one who encourage me to take this class, in fact. He had
      a…misunderstanding with a Muggle once and the girl shot him
      twice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Guns aren't legal in Britain," Hermione interjected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He was in Las Vegas," Theodore explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, Las Vegas," Harry said wistfully. "I've never been there,
      but I've heard some nice things."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My father wants to make sure that I don't get killed because I
      know nothing about Muggles," Theodore concluded. "Also, he says the
      way people speak about them as if they are the sort of mythical
      creatures you'd find in the Quibbler to be embarrassing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's quite a progressive attitude to take for a Pureblood
      Supremacist," Harry said admiringly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who said we're Pureblood Supremacists?" Theodore
      challenged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In my experience, most Pureblood families remain so as they
      either know nothing or hate everything about Muggle," Harry
      answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about the Weasleys?" Hermione asked innocently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced over at her. "Have you heard about their squib
      second-cousin they like to pretend doesn't exist?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione shook her head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I mean, they claim it's just because he's nasty and resentful
      of their magic, but it's really a problem perpetuated by society:
      imagine, not too long ago Pureblood families imprisoned if not
      outright killed their squib children. Even those that weren't
      killed were often abandoned and some had their memories erased.
      Those that managed to escape that fate still weren't able to go to
      Hogwarts and often didn't receive a Muggle education and so when
      they became adults they didn't know how to become a member of the
      Muggle World and didn't fit in here either. Why do you think Filch
      is so bitter?" Harry asked rhetorically. "It's up to our generation
      to change things, though, and chances are at least one of the seven
      Weasley's will marry a non-Pureblood."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stared at him the way she always did when he started
      getting serious. Fortunately, their professor chose that moment to
      enter the classroom, dressed in jeans and a sweatshirt that said
      'Cambridge' on it. Harry vaguely recognized her as Charity Burbage,
      a woman whose picture had been in the obituary edition of the Daily
      Prophet following the second Battle of Hogwarts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Welcome, class," she beamed at that. "My name is Professor
      Burbage and I am pleased that we have representatives from all four
      houses this year. Before we start, I'm going to need to gauge how
      much you already know about the Muggle world. For instance, raise
      your hand if you know what electricity is?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Aside from Harry and Hermione, only Theodore Nott raised his
      hand. Hm, maybe he was serious about his dad wanting him to have a
      passing knowledge of Muggles. Interesting.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"How was Muggle Studies?" Neville asked as Harry flew into the
      Transfiguration classroom. "And don't worry, you're not late."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good," Harry sighed, relieved. "And it was interesting. I
      actually learned something!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville raised his eyebrow skeptically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, not much," Harry admitted. "But considering I didn't
      think I'd learn <em class="calibre8">anything</em>, it was quite an
      accomplishment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione chose that moment to slip into the classroom and look
      around frantically to see if she was late.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How was…" Ron paused, trying to remember what else she had
      taken already that morning. "Arithmancy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was great," Hermione said, eyes glowing. "I'm going to have
      to put some real work in, but I think I'll learn a lot. And Muggle
      Studies was fascinating; Professor Burbage really knows what she's
      talking about."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Attention class," McGonagall stood up and began a lecture on
      Animagi. The class listened with rapt interest while Harry doodled
      on Ron's textbook as he already felt he knew quite enough on the
      subject, being an Animagus himself. He only looked up once he heard
      the sound of applause and was just in time to see a tabby cat turn
      back into their Professor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall smiled at the applause but then her eyes narrowed.
      "That's strange…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's strange, Professor?" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I could have sworn you just came from Divination," she
      responded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We did," Ron piped up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor Trelawney usually predicts the death of one of her
      students and people usually take that rather seriously," McGonagall
      explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She tried to predict Harry's death," Seamus volunteered. "But
      then they decided that the dog was probably Harry's godfather and
      moved on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Dean chimed in. "She said that since Harry's psychic
      scar was dependent on Harry for survival, it would probably be able
      to take care of him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall closed her eyes at the words 'psychic scar' and
      looked very much like Hermione did when they were being stupid and
      she was getting a headache. Finally, she said, "I'm glad to hear
      that none of you will be worrying about dying at any moment. Now,
      your assignment for today is to turn these rabbits," she gestured
      to her desk which had a large cage full of white rabbits, "into
      silk hats. Points will, of course, be subtracted if the hats have
      fur, whiskers, or moves around and your instructions are on the
      board."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After everyone had grabbed a rabbit and started attempting the
      transformation, McGonagall started walking around the classroom and
      observing everyone's progress. When she got to Harry's group, she
      frowned. Hermione had already managed to transfigure her rabbit
      perfectly, of course, and Ron and Neville were in the process of
      attempting to transfigure theirs, but Harry's was still a rabbit,
      though it was dark grey.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Potter," McGonagall frowned. "You usually have yours done
      long before now. Are you having problems?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "Not really; I'm just attempting to do
      this without a wand. Obviously, it's a work in progress."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor's frown deepened. "May I ask <strong class="calibre9">why</strong>
      you're attempting to do this without your wand?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because I already did it normally. See?" With that, he waved
      his wand and his nearly-black rabbit turned into a black hat. He
      waved it again and the hat turned back into a white rabbit. "Of
      course, now I have to start all over…" Harry lamented.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall just stared at him, shocked. "Did you just manage a
      silent transfiguration?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Whoops. "…Yes?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall looked a little teary-eyed and was probably caught up
      in memories of his father the transfiguration prodigy. "Carry on,
      Mr. Potter, carry on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So…since you're done, do you want to help me?" Ron asked
      hopefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked incredulously at him. "Done? I've got even less
      done than you! Ask Hermione."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With that, Harry went back to work turning his rabbit black.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">After lunch was Care of Magical Creatures with Hagrid.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know," Draco said casually as they all opened their books
      to page 54, which was the start of the section on Hippogriffs. "If
      I hadn't done my own school supply shopping, I might never have
      known how to open these. Think how embarrassing it would have been
      to have had to tie a belt around the book because I didn't know we
      had to stroke it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But Draco," Harry retorted. "I paid Dobby do my shopping and I
      still know how to do it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't you have a psychic scar?" Draco asked. "I sort of think
      that's cheating."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Meh," Harry shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once Hagrid was done explaining about Hippogriffs, he asked for
      a volunteer. As expected, no one wanted to get near them until they
      were sure it was safe. It wasn't like they thought that Hagrid
      would purposely endanger them or anything, but what was considered
      'safe' by a half-giant like Hagrid was a bit different from what
      was considered 'safe' for a bunch of thirteen-year-olds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Naturally, then, the burden of volunteering fell on Harry. "I'll
      do it," he called cheerfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good man, Harry!" beamed Hagrid. "Right then – let's see how
      you get on with Buckbeak." With that he untied one of the chains
      and pulled Witherwings – Buckbeak now – out into the paddock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry walked confidently towards the Hippogriff and bowed
      deeply, making sure not to blink as he did so. When he looked up,
      he saw Buckbeak bow just as deeply. It looked like Hagrid was right
      about confidence paying off when dealing with Hippogriffs. He
      slowly approached Buckbeak and started to stroke its beak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well done, Harry!" cried an ecstatic Hagrid over the class'
      applause. "Righ' then, Harry. I reckon he migh' let y eh ride
      him!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "Sweet." He listened carefully to Hagrid's
      advice about mounting a Hippogriff and before he knew it he was
      flying around the Hogwarts grounds. It wasn't nearly as bad as he
      remembered, but broomsticks were still infinitely more comfortable.
      Especially the Firebolt 2000 he'd just gotten a few weeks before
      getting thrown into the past…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Harry landed, he saw a bright flash and looked over to see
      Colin Creevey standing there with a camera. He got off of Buckbeak
      and went over to see what the second year wanted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm on my way to Herbology," Colin explained. "Do you think the
      Prophet would want this as a 'human interest' piece?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry considered. "Probably. Especially considering this is
      Hagrid's first class after his record was expunged."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Great," Colin beamed. "Expect it in the Prophet sometime next
      week. Bye Harry!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Later Colin," Harry waved back as he returned his attention to
      his class.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Emboldened by Harry's success, the rest of the class climbed
      cautiously into the paddock. Hagrid untied the Hippogriffs one by
      one, and soon people were bowing nervously, all over the
      paddock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry quickly headed over to Draco, Crabbe, and Goyle, who had
      claimed Buckbeak. "Draco, if you ruin Hagrid's first class for him
      by insulting Buckbeak when he warned us repeatedly not to do that
      then I will officially start a rumor that your mother's not really
      a Black as your grandmother was cheating on your grandfather with
      Abraxas Malfoy and thus your parents are half-siblings."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco glowered at him and opened his mouth to protest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't think I won't," Harry warned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine," Draco glared as he stormed off to join Pansy and
      Millicent, Crabbe and Goyle at his heels.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So he may have pissed Draco off, but at least the rest of
      Hagrid's class passed peacefully and non-violently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Review please!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
