<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Oh God Not Again pt2 - Oh God Not Again! Chapter 30, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Oh God Not Again pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s5" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 30</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: I do not own Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: Now for part two of the ever-exciting classes chapter! I
      know, it's thrilling, isn't it? :p I am skipping Herbology, though,
      because quite frankly the teacher's kind of boring.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wasn't quite sure what to expect when he walked into
      History of Magic. That was the only class in which he'd only ever
      had one teacher for his entire Hogwarts career as ghosts didn't
      need substitutes. One thing he did suspect was that falling asleep
      in Sirius's class would be a very bad idea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sure enough, Sirius started the class off with a warning against
      that very thing. "Hello, my name is Professor Black. I used to
      attend Hogwarts – Go Gryffindor! – and as such I had to endure my
      predecessor's teaching as well. Frankly, I don't think I was
      conscious for <em class="calibre8">any</em> of Professor Binns' lectures and I
      understand that many of you have had that same experience. If you
      want to fall asleep in my class, I will not stop you but know this:
      the charms that were mysteriously applied to my classroom recently
      could very well turn you blue, change your gender, make you unable
      to use the letter 'e', force you to speak in sonnets, or something
      else entirely that we haven't discovered, yet. For those of you who
      don't know <em class="calibre8">how</em> to compose a sonnet…well, you should have
      stayed awake. I also feel obliged to warn you that those
      unfortunate enough to disregard my warning found that the Hospital
      Wing was quite unable to help them out and they're just stuck the
      way they are for an entire week. Any questions before we
      begin?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Immediately, there was a flurry of hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Won't you get in trouble for hexing students?" Lavender wanted
      to know.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would," Sirius acknowledged. "It it were me who was hexing
      them and not my classroom."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why haven't you moved to a different classroom?" Seamus
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I tried that with some fifth-year Hufflepuffs," Sirius replied.
      "It didn't work."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What happened to Professor Binns?" Parvati asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor McGonagall discovered signs of an exorcism in the
      castle while I was having my interview with the Headmaster and she
      quickly discovered that Professor Binns was the only ghost
      unaccounted for," Sirius explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why were you applying for a position that wasn't likely to
      vacate anytime soon?" Dean asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius looked thoughtfully at him. "You're a Muggleborn, aren't
      you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dean looked surprised and a little wary. "Yes, how did you
      know?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius laughed. "I could tell by all the valid questions; you
      tend to get those more with people less affiliated with the
      wizarding world. And I was applying because I was hoping that the
      Headmaster would rather have a live teacher than a ghost. The fact
      I was there when the exorcism was discovered was just good
      timing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did you escape from Azkaban?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius stiffened. "I'm not sure what you're talking about, young
      man. I've never been to Azkaban in my life and I challenge you to
      find any legal documentation that says otherwise."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then where were you for most of my life?" Harry piped up, just
      to be annoying.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Majorca," Sirius lied easily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And yet you abandoned me to my magic-hating relatives?" Harry
      asked, sounding horrified.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, I got you a Firebolt, didn't I? What more do you want?"
      Sirius demanded, crossing his arms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is the curse just if we fall asleep or is it also if we're not
      paying attention?" Neville asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No idea," came Sirius's reply. "But do you <em class="calibre8">really</em> want
      to be letting your guard down in a room that hexes sleeping
      people?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Point," Neville admitted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you going to be falling Professor Binns' curriculum?"
      Hermione asked naively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope," Sirius said cheerfully. "All you need to know about the
      Goblin Rebellions for now is that they keep happening because
      Goblins have a bloodthirsty nature and Wizards keep trying to
      subjugate them, such as the Wand Ban of 1631 which prohibited any
      magic creatures other than witches and wizards from using wands,
      although <em class="calibre8">that</em> was probably a reaction to the 1612 Goblin
      Rebellion that took place in Hogsmeade…Be careful of Goblins, kids.
      They are intelligent, ruthless, and control the money supply."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The students stared at him; that was the first mildly
      interesting any of them had ever heard about Goblins and they were
      a bit concerned about what might happen to the economy in the event
      of another Goblin Rebellion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But enough about that; we can cover Goblins when we get nearer
      to OWLs. Instead, let's talk about Voldemort," Sirius
      announced.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Immediately, the room was filled with gasps and shudders.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you guys for real?" Sirius asked in disbelief.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry quite understood his astonishment. While it was
      understandable that people had been afraid to use the appellation
      of 'Voldemort' at the height of his power, twelve years had passed
      since then and no one except Harry knew what a world where
      Voldemort was running wild was like so why in the world were they
      acting so terrified? Harry had more-or-less gotten used to
      everyone's paranoia, but Sirius had been thrown into Azkaban the
      minute Voldemort died-ish and had been a fugitive and and/or
      surrounded by people who actually knew full well the horror
      Voldemort's reign wrought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tell you what," Sirius decided."Anyone who can use the word
      'Voldemort' in a sentence in front of me without twitching,
      stuttering, or turning pale gets 50 points and I'll agree to
      'supervise' one of their detentions. Now, to make a note to tell my
      other classes…" he muttered, turning to the chalkboard and writing
      'VOLDEMORT' in all capitals across the top.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So we're learning about Voldemort?" Hermione asked
      immediately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We really don't have many facts about Voldemort," Neville
      chimed in. "Just myths and legends."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius grinned. "100 points to Gryffindor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Great," Harry groaned. "Not only does my godfather apparently
      hate me, but two of my best friends do, too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't worry, Harry," Ron tried to reassure him. "It's not like
      I'm going to say it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe not now," Harry conceded. "But all things considered, I
      think we're going to be spending quite a bit of time on
      He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why are you calling Voldemort that?" Hermione asked, curiously.
      "You never do that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Desperate times call for desperate measures," Harry replied
      seriously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, to cement my place on the hit list of any self-respecting
      death eater – that is, if there were any – I'm going to begin by
      telling you that 'Lord Voldemort' is an alias for one Tom Marvolo
      Riddle. Fun fact: if you rearrange the letters of 'Tom Marvolo
      Riddle' you get the words 'I am Lord Voldemort.' So basically the
      most feared name around is actually just the posturing of a bored
      teenager who really got lucky that 'Voldemort' means 'flight from
      death' in French," Sirius said brightly. "Also, Riddle was a
      half-blood who had daddy issues because his mother, a Pureblood by
      the name of Merope Gaunt and who was one of Salazaar Slytherin's
      only heirs, married a Muggle also named Tom Riddle after dosing him
      with a love potion. Merope Gaunt eventually deluded herself that
      her little love slave was really in love with her and stopped
      feeding him the potion. He immediately left her and their unborn
      child and went home. There's a lesson to be learned from all this.
      Can anyone tell me what that is?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't assume the guy your feeding love potions is in love with
      you and stop?" Lavender suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Seamus blanched and slowly started inching away from her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius stared at her. "I was <strong class="calibre9">actually</strong> going to
      say 'Don't drug people with a love potion' or 'always tell your
      significant other that you are a witch or wizard before the
      wedding/a child is conceived in case they don't handle it well so
      you can Obliviate them and move on', but that was a good – if
      creepy – guess. Now, once Riddle left Gaunt lost the will to live,
      peddled her possessions, gave birth at an orphanage and died.
      Little Riddle resented being abandoned by his father and this may
      have played a part in his strong anti-Muggle sentiments.
      Additionally, Gaunt's father and brother also passed away, leaving
      Riddle the only remaining Heir of Slytherin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Does that mean that he opened the Chamber of Secrets 50 years
      ago?" Dean asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded. "Yes, he did and he killed a fellow student of
      his who many of you may know as 'Moaning Myrtle' from Ravenclaw.
      Now, does anyone have any questions?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once again, there was a flurry of hands.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">When Harry got to Potions, Snape was nowhere to be found.
      Lockhart, however, was standing behind Snape's desk, scowling
      something fierce.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor Lockhart?" Harry asked, somewhat tentatively. "What
      are you doing here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ten points from Gryffindor for your cheek, Potter," Lockhart
      said curtly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was puzzled for a moment before the truth dawned on him.
      "Professor <em class="calibre8">Snape</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ten more points for pointing out the obvious, Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As pleased as Harry was to counteract Hermione and Neville's
      huge point draw for saying 'Voldemort', he knew that to lose twenty
      points for very little in reason in less than a minute meant that
      Snape must be <em class="calibre8">pissed</em>. Clearly Snape's
      current…predicament…was Sirius's all fault. He was almost glad that
      Sirius had finally gone ahead and <span>done</span> something; he
      was getting worried.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's Lockhart doing here?" Neville asked quietly as they
      started working on their Shrinking Solutions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not really him, it's Snape," Harry whispered back. "I
      think Sirius pranked him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They haven't let go of their Hogwarts rivalry," Harry
      explained. "Of course, in Snape's defense – and I can't believe I
      just said that – Sirius did bully him mercilessly for years, helped
      drive away his only friend, and nearly killed him because Sirius
      really hates Slytherins. Of course, Snape used to be a Death Eater,
      so maybe that's a reason Sirius is still upset…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And so your godfather is still attacking him now? That's…kind
      of pathetic," Neville admitted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "Eh, he ate rats for me. I say let him have his
      fun."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you two chatting or working?" Snape demanded, storming
      over. "Longbottom, how on God's green Earth did you manage to turn
      your Shrinking Solution orange?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville glanced down at his potion, which was indeed orange.
      "Huh, what do you know? It is orange. Isn't it supposed to be
      green?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed," Snape sneered. The effect was kind of ruined by the
      fact that he still looked and sounded like Lockhart, though, and in
      fact it was rather comical. "Longbottom, at the end of this lesson
      we will feed a few drops of this potion to your toad and see what
      happens. Perhaps that will encourage you to do it properly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright," Neville nodded before knocking his cauldron over.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape looked murderous. "DETENTION!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After he stormed away, Neville murmured, "It's a good thing
      Professor Black volunteered to supervise my next detention…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why'd you knock your potion over, Neville?" Hermione asked,
      shocked. "Now you'll have to start over!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville shrugged. "Better that than risking poor Trevor. You'll
      help me with the next one, won't you? He might still want to do
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine," Hermione agreed reluctantly, not wanting any harm to
      befall Neville's toad and knowing that Potions would never be
      Neville's strong suit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is Trevor even down here?" Harry inquired.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron snorted. "You think that will stop him? Nice job, by the
      way, Neville. That was awesome!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks," Neville smiled. He'd really come a long way.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was really looking forward to his first Defense Against
      the Dark Arts lesson with a teacher that wasn't either a fraud or
      evil. Or Snape. Although given the fact he pretended to be a loyal
      death eater and the fact that he'd just tried to kill Trevor, both
      of those points were debatable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He remembered that the first lesson was on Boggarts and that it
      was in the staff room, but he was still a little thrown off to see
      Snape, still looking like Lockhart, waiting for them. And he had to
      be waiting for them or else he would have put up more of a fuss
      about leaving or the third year Gryffindors' presence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Possibly no one's told you, Lupin, but this class contains
      Neville Longbottom. I would advise you to be on your guard as he
      has spent <em class="calibre8">far</em> too much time with Harry Potter and is
      liable to cause wanton destruction at the slightest
      provocation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville glared defiantly at Snape but said nothing, not wanting
      to push his luck.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was hoping that Neville would assist me with the first stage
      of the operation," Remus said casually. "I'm sure he will perform
      it with minimal collateral damage."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville looked pleased while Snape amused Harry further by
      showing him how Lockhart would look curling his lip in disgust
      before leaving.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have you spotted it, Harry?" Remus's voice broke through
      Harry's mental replaying of how hilarious Snape was when he looked
      like Lockhart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Spotted what?" Harry asked automatically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What advantage do we have over the Boggart?" Remus
      repeated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can neutralize its effectiveness by waving our wands,
      thinking of something amusing, and saying 'Riddikulus'?" Harry
      guessed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus frowned. "I was actually going to say 'because trying to
      frighten multiple people will confuse it and it won't know what
      form to take', but I suppose that is another advantage. Let's
      practice the charm without our wands first. After me,
      please…<em class="calibre8">riddikulus</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Finally, Remus was satisfied that they had the spell down.
      "Right, Neville. First things first: what would you say is the
      thing that frightens you most in the world?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The thought of Harry as Minister of Magic," Neville replied
      immediately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey!" Harry protested while the rest of the class laughed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry as Minister of Magic…hmmm…Neville, I believe you live
      with your grandmother?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure do," Neville said cheerfully. "But she'd be just as scary
      as Minister, though obviously for different reasons."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, no, you misunderstand me," Remus explained. "I wonder,
      could you tell me what sort of clothes your grandmother usually
      wears?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was starting to get a <strong class="calibre9">bad</strong> feeling about
      this…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sure enough, two minutes later an older-looking Harry stepped
      out of the wardrobe, beaming. "You know," Boggart-Harry said.
      "Monday is probably the most depressing day ever, let's cancel it.
      And what's this nonsense about not being able to own a dragon in
      Britain? I say we give one to anyone with a license. Oh! And we can
      add a dragon tax to the Pureblood tax! And how did the ghost
      community respond to my decree to allow Sir Nicholas into the
      Headless Hunt? I-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">RIDDIKULUS!</em>" Neville shouted, desperately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Instantly, Harry was in drag. He didn't think the sight of him
      wearing a long, lace-trimmed dress, a towering hat topped with a
      moth-eaten vulture, and swing a huge crimson handbag from his hand
      was very funny, but apparently the rest of the class disagreed as
      they were in stitches.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry, annoyed by the image and wanting a chance to face the
      Boggart and knowing that Remus wouldn't be inclined to let him,
      raced forward. There was a crack and – to Harry's surprise –
      instead of a Dementor there was a flash of bright green light.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">The Killing Curse</em>, Harry realized even as he raised his
      wand and cried, "<em class="calibre8">Riddikulus</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the Avada Kedavra turned into a light show, Harry mused that
      he really needn't have bothered as his classmates seemed to find
      his fear of 'green light' hysterical.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Seriously, Harry? Green Light?" Ron asked through his
      laughter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was the Killing Curse!" Harry insisted. "I don't want the
      people I care about to die!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure it is, Harry," Hermione tried to console him but she
      couldn't keep a straight face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine," Harry crossed his arms. "Why don't you try it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe I will," Hermione declared before stepping up the
      Boggart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was another crack and McGonagall was standing there,
      looking disappointed. "I don't know what to say, Ms. Granger. You
      had so much potential…or at least I thought you did. Now, I don't
      know what to think. You've failed. Everything. We've never had a
      student fail everything before and so we're kicking you out of
      Hogwarts!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione screamed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione," Ron ran up to her. "It's just a Boggart, remember?
      This isn't real. Imagine…imagine she can only speak in sonnets like
      Professor Black said!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione closed her eyes and, voice shaking, shouted,
      "<em class="calibre8">R-Riddikulus</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For a moment, nothing happened, then McGonagall continued her
      rant Shakespeare-style.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Miss Granger, I just don't know what to say</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You've failed everything and that is the truth</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now you must leave Hogwarts at once today</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Education is wasted on you youth</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're a disappointment and a disgrace</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No one's ever failed everything before</p>
      <p class="calibre6">How dare you even stay and show your face</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Foolish girl, hurry and run out the door</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Honestly, you're better off a Muggle</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of course you are clearly so very dim</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That even that will end up a struggle</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I'm telling you now your future is grim</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is really for your own good, my dear</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That I'm now throwing you out on your rear."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron smiled reassuringly at Hermione before he stepped up to face
      the Boggart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Crack! McGonagall turned into a six-foot-tall spider covered in
      hair and clicking its pincers menacingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Riddikulus</em>!" Ron yelled after only a moment's
      hesitation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Spider's legs vanished and the Boggart rolled Lavender's
      way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks, Ron," Hermione said quietly as they watched their
      classmates deal with the Boggart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't worry about it," Ron told her. "Seriously, don't. You're
      brilliant. You're the smartest person I know, except for Dumbledore
      and sometimes Harry. They would never throw you out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's give them a moment, shall we?" Harry suggested, pulling
      Neville off to the side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Neville, finish it!" Remus called.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville stepped up to the Boggart and it turned back into
      Minister Harry. "<em class="calibre8">Riddikulus</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The minute that Boggart was in a dress, there was a loud
      flash.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry spun around and groaned when he saw Draco Malfoy standing
      at the door, holding a camera.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco grinned. "Payback's a bitch, Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: I think Hermione's reaction seems a little extreme, but
      considering in the actual Book 3 she was willing to leave in the
      middle of the exam because she couldn't handle McGonagall telling
      her she failed everything, it should be in character. Also, I've
      never taken a class on poetry and as such had to look up how to do
      sonnets online. I completely ignored the part about iambic
      pentameter because that seems like it would take far too much time.
      Maybe Hermione's not an expert on sonnets either and thought what
      the Boggart was saying was close enough.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Review Please!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
