<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Oh God Not Again pt2 - Oh God Not Again! Chapter 31, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Oh God Not Again pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s6" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 31</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: I do not own Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: You know what's really annoying? People complaining about
      things in a story that <em class="calibre8">aren't actually in there</em>. For
      instance, Harry being a pedophile by immediately going out with the
      girl of his choice even though he's mentally older. 'Oh, you mean
      Harry was married? Clearly he must want to molest poor ten-year-old
      Ginny!' I think there's almost a ridiculous <strong class="calibre9">lack</strong>
      of romance in this story right now and Harry is well aware of the
      squick issues. And Hermione must be receiving favoritism because in
      some of the first chapters she picked up on a little innuendo the
      others didn't get because she's intelligent and didn't fear saying
      'Voldemort' during the first week of school when she probably had
      never heard anyone tell her not to say it? And STOPPING reading a
      story because you hate the word 'emo'? I mean, I understand
      stopping if you hate the plot, characterizations, pairing…but one
      word? Sorry for the mini-rant, but it was quite distracting as I
      got that when I was trying to write this…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It occurred to Harry later that he really could have handled the
      picture situation a lot better than he did. For instance, he could
      have blown the camera up, petrified Draco, used a switching spell,
      summoned it…basically anything but what he did, which was
      absolutely nothing. Draco, on the other hand, sent the photo of the
      Boggart straight to Rita Skeeter, who wrote "Dungeons and Drag: The
      Secret Life of Harry Potter" which wasn't just an article, but a
      <em class="calibre8">series</em> of articles. Harry, naturally, had responded by
      suing for libel and won, forcing the Daily Prophet to print a
      retraction. The Wizarding World at large seemed to have forgotten
      about it by early October but the Hogwarts students…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey Harry," Lisa Turpin, a Ravenclaw from his year, greeted
      him. "I was wondering if you could sign my new Harry-in-drag wall
      scroll?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draco's selling wall scrolls now?" Harry asked
      incredulously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yeah," Lisa nodded enthusiastically. "He said he got the
      idea from you and your incessant merchandizing you've been doing
      since last year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Damn him," Harry muttered, wondering whether he should drop
      that Narcissa-the-secret-Malfoy rumor after all or whether he
      really deserved this for the widely-accepted
      Snape-as-Draco's-father story he created. In fact, Sirius said that
      just last week Snape had gotten a letter from a lawyer offering to
      help him sue for partial custody of Draco. Needless to say, the
      Potions Master was not amused. Fortunately, he'd been riding so
      high ever since Rita Skeeter's first article came out that this new
      drop in mood just meant he was pretty much back to normal.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So…will you?" Lisa asked again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, fine whatever," Harry sighed as he took out his decidedly
      Muggle pen and quickly signed it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks, Harry, you're a good sport," Lisa said cheerfully as
      she hurried away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you think I can persuade you to sign them before I sell
      them?" Draco's voice came from behind him. Harry turned around to
      watch the Slytherin staring at him with obvious amusement. "It
      would probably be worth more."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Would I get a cut in the profits?" Harry asked
      automatically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ten percent," Draco offered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Twenty," Harry countered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fifteen," Draco compromised.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Deal," Harry smiled. "Now you've got to tell me: why in the
      world were you in the teacher's lounge that day? I mean, were you
      stalking me or something? Or do you just take pictures of Hogwarts
      in your spare time?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I ran into Professor Snape a little after Potion's class,"
      Draco explained. "He told me to get a camera and hurry to the
      teacher's lounge. I didn't have one, so I had to borrow
      Pansy's-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pansy has a camera?" Harry interrupted. "I thought that was
      only Colin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco rolled his eyes. "Pansy has apparently decided to follow
      your entrepreneurial example and has taken it upon herself to write
      a book for parents and new students (particularly Muggleborns)
      about what to expect, what the castle's like and the classes and
      she's including a lot of pictures."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Man, I wish I thought of that…" Harry trailed off. "But
      wait…both of your families are ridiculously wealthy. Why would you
      even need to make money?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why would you?" Draco shot back. "You're independently wealthy
      as well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, but you guys don't throw around money like I do and your
      parents are still around to find ways to accumulate more wealth,"
      Harry pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco shrugged. "What can I say, Potter? It's nice to have some
      readily available cash without needing to go through your parents
      and Hogwarts can be <strong class="calibre9">really</strong> boring. But like I was
      saying, Professor Snape told me to go to the teacher's lounge and I
      suppose he thought I could get a picture of your worst fear or you
      looking terrified, but this worked out so much better, don't you
      think?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For you, maybe," Harry muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco just smirked and walked away.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">As Harry waited impatiently for the line to leave the Castle and
      go to Hogsmeade to shorten, he noticed a disturbance at the
      beginning of the line. Upon closer examination, it appeared that
      Lavender was crying and Parvati, Seamus, and Dean were attempting
      to comfort her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's wrong?" Harry asked as he, Ron, Neville, and Hermione
      approached them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She got a letter from home this morning," Parvati whispered.
      "It's her rabbit, Binky. He's been killed by a fox."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Hermione said. "I'm so sorry, Lavender."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I should have known," Lavender angsted. "You know what day it
      is?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Sixteenth of October?" Neville helpfully supplied. "The day
      that Professor Trelawney said something bad would happen to
      you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lavender nodded and sighed tragically. "And not just that: I
      also got my period today!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know what?" Harry said, feeling uncomfortable. "I think I
      forgot my money in my room. Coming Ron? Neville?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dear God, yes," Ron said, practically pushing Harry towards the
      Gryffindor tower.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We'll go with you!" Dean jumped in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yeah, I think I forgot something as well…" Seamus said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The moment the five boys were out of sight, they hid behind a
      wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Psst, Ginny," Harry called out as he saw the girl in question
      walking by.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you guys doing?" she asked, walking up to them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're hiding from Lavender because she's talking to Parvati and
      Hermione about 'girl things,'" Harry explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And so you're <em class="calibre8">hiding</em>," Ginny said, shaking her head in
      disgust. "Boys. What do you want me to do? Let you know when it's
      safe to come out?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That would be great," Harry nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright," Ginny agreed. "If you buy me a box of Honeydukes
      Chocolate."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hell, if you let us know when they leave so we can avoid them
      for the rest of the day, I'll buy you five."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny smiled at the thought and, after a few more minutes passed
      by, let them know it was safe to go.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks Ginny, you're a lifesaver," Harry said gratefully as
      they got back in line.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"With the kind of heroics <span>you</span> get up to, it doesn't
      surprise me that you would think that," Ginny replied idly.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Since Hagrid's first lesson was such a resounding success (even
      if it did ultimately result in Draco's photo revenge that he was
      <em class="calibre8">still</em> milking for all its worth) he continued showing them
      exciting and rather dangerous creatures. Fortunately, Hermione
      managed to convince him to let them know in advance what they were
      going to be studying and everyone always made sure to be
      well-prepared as doing otherwise could easily land them in the
      Hospital Wing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Potions was much the same as it had always been, with the
      exception that Neville was not putting a lot more effort into a
      class he knew he wasn't good at because he was worried that Snape
      would try to poison Trevor again with his potions if he screwed
      them up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Trelawney seemed convinced that Harry – or rather, his
      facial disfigurement – was a true prodigy and often let him off
      with less homework as he apparently did not need the extra help to
      establish his connection to his inner eye since he was already
      using it on a regular basis. Vaguely, Harry tried to remember the
      first time he'd used his scar excuse. He was fairly certain it was
      only supposed to be a one-time thing so he could do whatever he
      wanted/needed to do without having to bother with explanations for
      his future knowledge but somehow…well it was convenient. And he
      thought maybe the first time he bothered with that was when he went
      off to go blow Voldemort's cover his first year.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius and Remus – both interesting if unorthodox teachers – had
      begun competing to see which class the students preferred. Sirius,
      of course, always had amusing lectures and answered whatever
      question anyone threw at him but Remus kept bringing in nice and
      non-lethal dark creatures. The end result, of course, was that
      History of Magic and Defense Against the Dark Arts were both more
      exciting than they'd been in years. Or possibly ever as Fred and
      George kept insisting that Binns had actually been hired by the
      Founders of Hogwarts themselves. Of course, that was highly
      unlikely, but since when had that ever stopped the rumor mill?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry," Sirius's voice jolted him out of his thoughts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I couldn't help but notice that you received a postcard this
      morning, read it, set it on fire, then tried to set the ashes on
      fire. Care to tell me what that's all about?" Sirius sounded rather
      amused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rolled his eyes. "Lockhart wrote to say his new book's
      done, he's dedicating it to me, and to remember that 'there's no
      such thing as bad publicity.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius laughed. "Well, for a man who's determined to make people
      remember him, I guess there wouldn't be. Is this about the
      posters?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of <em class="calibre8">course</em> it's about the posters," Harry snapped.
      "Draco sells them to whoever walks by and yet has somehow managed
      to convince people that they're a <strong class="calibre9">collector's
      item</strong>. Are people really that stupid?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do I really need to answer that?" Sirius asked
      rhetorically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Since when is Draco so good at this kind of thing, anyway?"
      Harry complained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's just what you get for pissing off Narcissa," Sirius
      commiserated. "She is a scary, scary lady. How do you think Lucius
      managed to stay out of Azkaban? Besides, this will all blow over
      soon enough. It's not <em class="calibre8">that</em> funny."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Strangely enough, Harry didn't look comforted. "You have three
      hanging in your classroom!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius was unrepentant. "They're some of my only pictures of
      you, seeing as how I so cruelly abandoned you for most of your
      life…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I knew that was going to come back and haunt me sooner or
      later," Harry grumbled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cheer up; I'm off to go plot revenge against Snivelly with
      Remus," Sirius said cheerfully. "Want to come?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Eh, why not?" Harry agreed as they set off to find the werewolf
      in question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Remus, are you busy?" Sirius asked, barging right in to Remus's
      office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Incredibly so, Sirius," Remus answered without looking up. "Two
      of the third year's Care of Magical Creatures textbooks attempted
      to eat their homework and I'm trying to decipher it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wow," Harry remarked. "'My book ate my homework.' I don't think
      I've heard that one before."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello, Harry," Remus greeted. "Do you need something?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, so you have time for him but not for me?" Sirius asked,
      wounded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's a student, Sirius, that makes him my responsibility,"
      Remus explained patiently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you have a way for everyone to have completely forgotten all
      about Neville's stupid Boggart?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing legal," came Remus's simple reply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now that we're all here, let the weekly meeting of the 'Drive
      Snivelly to the Brink of Insanity' come to order," Sirius said
      grandly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry raised an eyebrow. "DSBI?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's better than SPEW," Sirius said defiantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I told you, Sirius, I'm not going to help you. I'm-" Remus
      began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"An adult? Responsible? Not holding a decade-long grudge?" Harry
      supplied helpfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. To all of those things," Remus agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shot them a withering look. "Oh shut up. Now, since we
      last met that git did conspire to turn me into a Veela.
      Fortunately, the effect wore off at 48 hours because most of my new
      fangirls were underage. In return, I may have turned his nose into
      a beak and enchanted every reflective surface he came across to
      give him hygiene tips. This was all very good but now there is a
      new week, so we need a new plan!" Sirius waited for a moment, but
      Harry and Remus stayed silent. "<span>Well</span>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You told us to shut up," Remus said mildly as Harry tried to
      see if he could read Remus's paperwork upside-down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't actually expect you to <em class="calibre8">listen</em>," Sirius said
      impatiently. "So…ideas?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You could decorate <strong class="calibre9">his</strong> classroom with pictures
      of yourself in drag," Harry muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't quite think that would have the desired effect," Sirius
      said, writing it down anyway. "Remus?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You could try acting like a responsible member of society and
      <em class="calibre8">not</em> reviving this petty rivalry," Remus suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius just stared at him. "Wow. You are REALLY bad at this. I'm
      never leaving you alone for twelve years again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whatever makes you happy, Sirius," Remus said serenely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's a good philosophy," Sirius smiled. "I think more people
      should adopt it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Review Please!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
