<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Oh God Not Again pt2 - Oh God Not Again! Chapter 32, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Oh God Not Again pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s7" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 32</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: I do not own Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: Thanks for the outpouring of support! It really made my
      day.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you <em class="calibre8">mean</em> we're playing Hufflepuff instead of
      Slytherin tomorrow?" Harry asked incredulously. "Draco's not sick
      or injured or anything!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Oliver Wood coughed. "Actually, my sources tell me that he
      'accidentally' cast a reducto on his wrist and since Madam Pomfrey
      has to regrow several of his bones, he won't be in any shape for
      the match tomorrow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wow," Harry said almost admiringly. "That…that's dedication.
      Completely stupid since it's only a little rain and we'll be
      similarly hampered, but still…Have you ever had all your bones
      regrown? The fact he'd do that on purpose…Just wow…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know," Wood reluctantly agreed. "If it weren't for the fact
      that I don't want all of our multi-weather training to be for
      nothing, I'd suggest you do the same thing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…Gotta go," Harry said, sprinting for the relative safety of
      his Defense Against the Dark Arts class. "Sorry I'm late, Professor
      Lupin. I was dealing with a Quidditch fanatic and these things take
      time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This lesson began ten minutes ago, Potter, so I think we'll
      make it ten points from Gryffindor. Sit down," Remus said
      coldly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry brightened as he always did at the rare chance to lose
      house points. "So…that's a point a minute?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus nodded uncertainly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So can I use come back in an hour or so? Or hell, Monday? How
      many points would that be…" Harry trailed off, trying to figure it
      out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus's lips curled into an unpleasant smile. "Tempting as that
      may be, I have no inclination to spend time with you outside of
      class supervising your detention and if I don't then God knows your
      godfather will probably spend the time taking you to the kitchens
      or Hogsmeade or something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True," Harry conceded. "Are you feeling alright? I mean, you're
      acting kind of…Oh my God, isn't tonight the-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed it is," Remus confirmed, irritated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…So you're Professor Snape who my godfather made look like
      Professor Lupin for whatever reason?" Harry hazarded a guess.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He thought it would be an 'easier transition' for the
      students," Snape confirmed dourly. "Now sit down."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As I was saying before Potter interrupted, Professor Lupin has
      not left any records of the topics you have covered so far-" Snape
      began before Harry interrupted him yet again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have no idea what we're on, but since there isn't any lesson
      plan, can we take the time to learn about werewolves?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape's eyes widened. "That's an interesting request, Potter.
      Any particular reason?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knew Snape was surprised as the older man was obviously
      half-heartedly trying to get someone to realize about Remus because
      he was annoyed at having to fill in and because Remus hadn't done
      anything to stop Sirius acting like a prat and pranking him
      regularly. Not like Snape wasn't giving as good as he got, but… And
      it wasn't as if Snape wasn't totally planning on covering it
      anyway, so why not?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The widespread ignorance about lycanthropy is appalling. Did
      you know that people actually believe that werewolves live in the
      Forbidden Forest and you can run into one at any time or that it's
      possible to raise a 'werewolf cub' as if it were a pet?" Harry
      shook his head sadly. "As any Muggle could tell you, werewolves
      only transform on the full moon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But Harry," Hermione protested. "We were about to start
      hinkypunks!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If Professor Lupin wanted you to start hinkypunks today then he
      should have left a lesson plan," Snape pointed out. "I cannot
      believe I'm about to say this but…Potter's idea has merit. It is
      truly a sad state of affairs when Muggles know more about magical
      creatures than wizards do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's start with an easy question," Snape said. "Can any of you
      other than Miss Granger who has most likely memorized the textbook
      tell me how you distinguish between the werewolf and the true
      wolf?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dean Thomas, bolstered by the fact that as a Muggleborn he at
      least understood about the full moon, made use of that fact. "A
      true wolf is around as a wolf all the time versus the once-a-month
      werewolf?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anything that we haven't already said?" Snape tried again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If we get close enough to see the difference, then doesn't that
      mean that if it's a werewolf we're screwed anyway?" Harry asked
      innocently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"POTTER!" yelled Snape.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, right, I memorized the textbook. Sorry," Harry
      apologized.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When no other answers were forthcoming, Snape tutted softly. "I
      never thought I'd meet a third-year class who wouldn't even
      recognize a werewolf when they saw one. Even Lockhart got that
      across in his book on Werewolves…"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm just saying, I don't think I can ever forgive you," Harry
      said solemnly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I said I was sorry!" Cedric insisted. "And it's not like I
      <em class="calibre8">knew</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You should have," Harry crossed his arms sullenly. "I mean, for
      the love of God! Dementors come out of nowhere and swarm the field
      and I heroically save everyone by casting a kick-ass Patronus and
      the next thing I knew <strong class="calibre9">you had caught the
      Snitch</strong>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't notice they were there," Cedric tried to explain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How could you not notice?" Harry asked skeptically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There was very poor visibility," Cedric defended.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry just stared. "But didn't you wonder about the sudden
      feeling of hopelessness?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought it was because you guys were 50 points ahead and the
      storm was only getting worse," said Cedric.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine, stick to your story. But you and I both know the truth!"
      Harry said dramatically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, and so does everyone else," Cedric said slowly, trying to
      keep calm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Here are your winnings, Harry," Luna arrived, Ginny trailing
      along behind her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Winnings?" Cedric asked, surprised. "But you lost the
      match."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry made Luna bet that he would lose the match due to
      Dementor intervention and the students – who really should know
      better than to take a seemingly ridiculous bet from Harry by now –
      just lost quite a bit of money," Ginny explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why didn't you do it yourself instead of using a proxy?" Cedric
      inquired.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rolled his eyes. "Please. The minute I bet against
      Gryffindor, they'll accuse me of throwing the match."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But…there were Dementors," Cedric pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They would probably accuse Harry of bringing them," Luna said.
      "I still don't quite understand why Dementors are so pro-Hufflepuff
      though. I should write an article about it…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You should," Harry agreed. "I'll help. So Ginny, since I just
      heroically saved everyone, does that mean my hero street cred just
      rose?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It might," Ginny said thoughtfully. "If it weren't for the fact
      that the teachers can probably produce a Patronus as well and you
      made a <span>lot</span> of money on this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry decided to take the opportunity to be melodramatic. "Why
      do you hate me when all I give you is love?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny just rolled her eyes. "Why would you bet on something so
      ridiculous anyway?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My scar told me to," Harry explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your scar knew there would be Dementors," Ginny repeated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No idea, I didn't ask," Harry said breezily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then why'd you do it?" Ginny demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Becuase I have money to burn?" Harry guessed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why me?" Ginny asked, annoyed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Would you mind if I interviewed you for the Quibbler?" Luna
      asked Cedric.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Hufflepuff looked surprised. "I guess not. Why, though?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's part of my investigation," Luna told him. "A good reporter
      never goes into a story with any assumptions so I need to determine
      if the Dementors were really supporting Hufflepuff in general or if
      they just like you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You think the Dementors like me?" Cedric repeated. "Is
      that…good?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh no," Luna shook her head vehemently. "If they like you then
      they want to take your soul. If you cannot already produce a
      corporal Patronus like Harry then I recommend you ask Professor
      Lupin to teach you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric nodded. "I think I'll do that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And of course, there's always the matter of if the Dementors
      are rebelling against the Ministry of if someone from the Ministry
      itself sent them. With the great pictures I bought from Colin and
      Pansy, this may even make the front page!" Luna exclaimed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"May make?" Harry asked. "What were you planning to put on the
      front page?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna smiled happily. "It's Norbert's birthday."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't you think you're being a little melodramatic?" Harry
      asked, watching Oliver Wood attempt to drown himself in the
      sink.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Wood muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But there's not even enough water in there for you to drown
      in," Harry pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wood's hand reached for the tap.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't you dare," Harry swatted it away. "Do you have any idea
      how hard it would be to find a Keeper this late in the season? We'd
      probably have to end up using Ron."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is he any good?" Wood asked, still valiantly trying to
      drown.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "He has some real talent but he freezes up when
      other people are watching, lets them play mind games with him to
      distract him from the game, and I <em class="calibre8">really</em> don't want to see
      what would happen if he were on the same team as the twins."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Point," Oliver acknowledged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Besides, who on Earth would be captain?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Angelina could do it," Wood suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, I know I'm amazing and all but this is the first time in
      three years I've lost a match! We won the cup two years running!"
      Harry reminded him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But we lost this match," Oliver sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think this falls under the category of 'act of God'," Harry
      declared. "I mean, I'm good but there's really nothing I can do if
      Cedric happens to spot the Snitch while I'm in the middle of saving
      everyone from the Dementors."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Oliver didn't reply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look on the bright side," Harry said cheerfully. "At least we
      were playing Hufflepuff. If it were Slytherin then I would never
      hear the end of it from Draco."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">At the next Defense Against the Dark Arts lesson, Harry peered
      very carefully into the room before entering it. Yeah, it LOOKED
      like the teacher standing in the front of the room was Remus, but
      it had last time, too. The full moon was over with, but Remus would
      still be out of sorts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry decided to test it out. "Feeling better?" he asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am, thank you Harry," Remus said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't believe you left Snape in charge…" Harry said, shaking
      his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was either that or Sirius," Remus explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I guess I see your point," Harry admitted. "But still!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What happened?" Remus asked, looking concerned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You'll see," was all Harry would say.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor Lupin?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes?" Remus smiled at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you still want those werewolf essays?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus frowned slightly. "You were supposed to write an essay
      about werewolves? Did you tell Professor Snape we hadn't covered
      them yet?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I tried to," Hermione huffed. "But he said that if you wanted
      us to cover Hinkypunks you should have left a lesson plan and Harry
      suggested studying werewolves."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry met Remus's questioning stare and shrugged. "The rampant
      misconceptions were annoying me. Apparently they annoyed Professor
      Snape, too, as I heard he made every class he filled in for do an
      essay."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't worry," Professor Lupin said calmly. "I'll speak to
      Professor Snape. You don't have to do the essay."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But it's due today so we already did it," Seamus pointed
      out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, well since not every class had been assigned it, I can't
      very well make it an assignment…" Remus looked a bit
      uncomfortable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So in other words, just turn it in to Snape?" Neville
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why would we do that?" Parvati asked. "He teaches Potions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, but he assigned the essay and if we don't give it to him
      what do you think will happen to our Potions grades?" Neville
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not to mention he might appreciate a sign that we think he'd be
      an okay Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher," Harry agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course we do! There don't really seem to be any
      qualifications for the position. Er, sorry Professor," Lavender
      said sheepishly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't worry about it. Now, for the lesson you should have been
      covering on Friday: Hinkypunks."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, Hermione, did you find out anything…interesting when you
      were writing that werewolf essay?" Harry asked his friend as they
      sat outside by the Black Lake. Or at least that was what Harry
      thought it was called. Who really knew? Most people referred to it
      simply as 'the Lake.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Snivelly assigned you an essay on <strong class="calibre9">werewolves</strong>?"
      Sirius, who had been on his way to Hagrid's, stopped short and
      stared at them. At Harry's nod, he continued. "Right. This time I
      think I'm actually going to kill him…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione looked alarmed by this. "B-because of the essay? Does
      that mean that Professor Lupin really is a werewolf?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She figured it out before, too," Harry mouthed when Hermione
      wasn't looking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Reluctantly, Sirius calmed down a little. "Yes. When he was a
      small child, his father did something to piss off Fenrir Greyback.
      Greyback, in case you didn't know, is infamous for his savagery and
      his predication for attacking children, often to get back at their
      parents."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But…isn't it dangerous to have a werewolf at school?" Hermione
      gasped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He attended Hogwarts and except for one minor… incident, which
      was mostly my fault, there were no problems," Sirius explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What happened?" Hermione asked, still looking anxious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Someone almost walked in on Professor Lupin when he was
      transformed. Had he done that, he would have either died or become
      a werewolf himself for sure," Sirius said, looking vaguely guilty.
      Probably just for Remus's sake, though, as he would never forgive
      himself and probably been executed if anything had happened to
      Snape.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do we know that can't happen again?" Hermione demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Since then the Wolfsbane Potion has been invented," Harry piped
      up. "Professor Lupin still transforms physically but he doesn't
      mentally and so therefore it's perfectly safe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose if Dumbledore thinks it's okay then it must be safe,"
      Hermione said slowly. Harry had never thought he'd be grateful for
      Hermione's blind faith and unwavering loyalty to Dumbledore, but…
      "Although if that's the case, then why would Professor Snape assign
      us the essay? He must've known that someone could figure it
      out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Snape never liked Professor Lupin," Sirius explained. "But he
      can't actually tell anyone so he's just hinting at it. It's just so
      immature it's unbelievable."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pot meet kettle," Harry muttered.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The only really interesting that that happened in the weeks to
      follow was the result of Luna and her father's 'investigation' into
      the circumstances behind the Dementors' appearance. Harry really
      <em class="calibre8">shouldn't</em> have been surprised by the result, but he was
      anyway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Congratulations, Luna," Harry said. "How in the world did you
      manage to track the attack back to Dolores Umbridge?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A reporter's got to protect her sources, Harry," Luna said
      solemnly. "I must say, I'm glad that we caught her, though.
      Endangering schoolchildren because she felt that your influence
      might be a threat…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know," Harry agreed. "Really horrible thing to do. I wonder
      what her trial will be like. Fudge insists he didn't know anything
      about it and I'm actually inclined to believe him. He really
      doesn't know much of what goes on around him. How did he get to be
      Minister again?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's easily bribable and Dumbledore didn't want the job?" Luna
      suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, right. Still, Madam Bones would probably make a good
      minister…" Harry mused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But then who would be in charge of the Aurors?" Luna asked.
      "The last thing we need is an incompetent and/or corrupt Auror
      force."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe I can be Minister someday," Harry said. "I never really
      thought about it before that Boggart lesson, but it's an idea."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I never liked Mondays anyway," Luna said loyally.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Review Please!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
