<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Oh God Not Again pt2 - Oh God Not Again! Chapter 33, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Oh God Not Again pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s8" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 33</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: I do not own Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: I know that J.K. Rowling said that Flint failed his final
      year but...seriously? NO ONE fails their final year. If he was
      really that stupid there is no way he'd be Quidditch Captain.
      Besides, she only said that after someone noticed that he should
      have been graduated after book three was published. Therefore, I'm
      choosing to ignore it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was not in a very good mood heading to Divination and it
      was all his so-called friends' fault. They were in a great mood, of
      course, seeing as how they had just come from Charms where they had
      learned to cast the Cheering Charm (even Hermione had remembered to
      go seeing as how Harry as a concerned friend and Percy as a
      concerned Head Boy had been making her get some sleep all year and
      so she wasn't as frazzled).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry, sadly, was not under the influence of the Cheering Charm.
      He had partnered with Hermione while Ron and Neville teamed up and
      Hermione had somehow gotten it into her head that the thought of an
      extraordinarily cheerful and hyperactive Harry was a <em class="calibre8">bad</em>
      thing or something and refused to cast it on him. When she
      explained the situation, Ron and Neville immediately agreed to let
      her practice the Charm on the pair of them and as a result both
      boys were practically glowing with happiness. SO not fair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're starting crystal balls early!" Ron exclaimed. "Yes! No
      more palm reading!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And because we don't have to deal with all the different lines
      on the hand and just talk about what we 'see', it will be so much
      easier to make up," Neville added, pleased.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione, even cheerful, was hard-pressed to say something
      positive about their Divination class. "I…at least we're learning
      something new," she finally said, lamely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How long do those stupid charms last?" Harry muttered, annoyed.
      His classmates, of course, didn't answer as they were all too busy
      being high on life. And magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good day to you!" Professor Trelawney greeted them, perking up
      at their obvious enthusiasm. "I'm pleased to see you all so excited
      to start our study of the crystal ball. It's a little earlier than
      I had planned, but the Fates have informed me that your examination
      in June will concern the Orb and I am anxious to give you
      sufficient practice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, honestly… 'the Fates have informed her'…who sets the
      exam? She does! What an amazing prediction," Hermione scoffed. Her
      resiliency to the effects of the Cheering Charm (and Harry knew it
      wasn't because of his spell-casting as he'd long since mastered
      that particular charm) was quite admirable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know, Hermione," Harry disagreed, just to be annoying.
      "Self-fulfilling prophecies are the most dangerous kind and we
      don't know that the Orb would be on our exam if Professor Trelawney
      hadn't been notified."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A self-fulfilling prophecy sounds really, really lame,"
      Hermione replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm with you," Harry said easily. "But that doesn't mean that
      it's not true."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well said, Harry," Trelawney smiled over at him. "I am often
      both fascinated and frustrated by the self-fulfilling natures of
      many prophecies. For instance, would they have come to pass had the
      prophecy not been made? And if the prophecy will be fulfilled
      regardless of the attempts of we mere mortals, then what purpose
      does receiving prophecies in the first place serve? But alas, that
      is a subject for another time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione, who had actually looked mildly intrigued by that line
      of questioning, looked rather put out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what do you see?" Neville asked when their teacher had
      finally deemed them 'ready' to begin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see…" Harry trailed off, gazing into the crystal bog. 'Fog',
      his mind supplied. "My godfather turning Snape into at least four
      different people by the end of the year," he said instead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville snorted. "Only four?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "I said 'at least', didn't I? Anyway, what do
      you see?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville glanced idly into the crystal ball then smirked. "I see
      Gryffindor winning the House Cup for the third year in a row."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I hate you," Harry deadpanned. "You know that, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville shrugged. "I can live with it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You two are just making things up again, aren't you?" Hermione
      accused. "Ron and I can't see anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Prove it," Neville said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I <strong class="calibre9">told</strong> you, Hermione, I saw-" Ron began by
      Hermione interrupted him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I highly doubt Harry and one of the twins are going to enter
      themselves into some sort of international competition at
      Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry started coughing. Ron was alluding to the Triwizard
      Tournament? How in the-? And why would Fred or George-? Maybe these
      things weren't so ridiculous after all…no, on second thought they
      were just that stupid.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just because you can't see anything is no reason to shun the
      true believers, Hermione," Harry said seriously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, you can't be good at everything," Ron added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't want to be good at <span>every-</span>" Hermione began,
      red-faced.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes you do," Harry and Neville chorused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They have a point, my dear," Trelawney said gently, coming up
      from behind her. "And as it stands, you are far too devoted to the
      world of logic and facts to ever really succeed in such a delicate
      art form as this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know what?" Hermione said angrily, shoving her book back
      into her bag. "I don't even care anymore. This class is a waste of
      my time and I can't believe it took me seven months to realize
      this. I'm leaving." She then stormed out rather dramatically (but
      still slightly bouncy from the residual effects of the charm).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ooooo!" Lavender squealed the moment she was gone. "This is so
      cool! You told us that 'Around Easter, one of our numbers will
      leave us forever!' And she totally did!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Isn't that a little hasty?" Seamus asked. Seeing Parvati and
      Lavender's sudden glares, he quickly backtracked. "I mean, not that
      I don't have absolute faith in divination and everything, but she
      just stormed out of one class. I can't really imagine that
      <em class="calibre8">Hermione Granger</em>, of all people would willingly drop a
      class. Especially before exams. And especially considering the fact
      that she's using a Time Turner to get to all of her classes on time
      in the first place."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose you have a point," Parvati said grudgingly. "But on
      the other hand, the prediction is right so far. What are the odds
      that it's just a coincidence?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Besides," Dean added. "Hermione basically told us all that
      she's not coming back. If she does end up returning, it would be
      really embarrassing for her and considering that she never liked
      this class anyway and spends a lot of time with Harry – who we all
      know would never let her live it down – I think it's safe to say
      that she won't be coming back anytime soon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're amazing, Professor," Lavender said, her voice full of
      awe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm impressed, too," Harry admitted. "I mean, it figures that
      if someone would drop the class, it would be her, but how did you
      know she'd be able to make it seven months? You'd think if she
      managed to last this long she could last another month and a half
      until exams and then not sign up for it next year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When you have had as many years of experience with the Inner
      Eye as I have, you too will be able remove logic from your
      interpretations of future events," Trelawney said dreamily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grinned. "Can't wait."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron paled and started shaking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can I drop the class, too?" Neville asked, sounding slightly
      desperate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Trelawney said without looking at him.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was quite a show," Harry said as he slid into his seat in
      Muggle Studies.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't want to talk about it," Hermione said shortly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled apologetically. "I figured that. Still, dropping a
      class right before the exams? Are you sure that's the best
      decision? It will have made all the work you've already put into it
      completely pointless."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The fact that I apparently don't have the 'Inner Eye' or your
      skills at lying your ass off makes all the effort I've put into it
      all year completely pointless," Hermione countered. "Besides, even
      with using the Time Turner to take breaks and get some rest, I'm
      still really stressing out and having to spend hours brushing up on
      something that really has no practical purpose and that I'm not
      convinced is genuine in the first place just seems rather…a bit too
      much, really."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You do realize that now half the class is convinced that
      Trelawney made a prediction, right?" Harry said, grinning a
      bit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione cocked her head, confused. "No, why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Apparently our first class, she told us that 'one of our
      number' would be leaving forever or something like that. I think
      she was talking about dying as I'm fairly certain that was before
      she decided I wasn't doomed after all, but it was vague enough it
      could easily apply to that. Although how Lavender managed to
      remember that all these months…" Harry shook his head,
      impressed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe she wrote it down," Hermione suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe," Harry conceded. "Hi, Theodore!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why are you talking to me?" Theodore Nott asked, sounding
      bored. "Again?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because you're the one person I've found aside from Professor
      Snape who doesn't like me," Harry explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Theodore snorted. "That's what you think."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that's this obvious about it," Harry corrected. "And as
      for the people I don't know…well, I don't really care what they
      think as long as enough of them like me well enough to do whatever
      I tell them to do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You realize you sound like some sort of cult leader, right?"
      Theodore asked. "I think you picked the wrong house if you were
      thinking of being a Dark Lord."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, no, I've currently got my heart set on Minister of Magic,"
      Harry assured him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now that <em class="calibre8">is</em> a scary thought. I'll definitely make a
      note to go abroad in the event that ever happens," Theodore said,
      actually shuddering a bit. "Besides, I am not 'obvious' about
      disliking you; you didn't even notice until we had this class
      together."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry considered this. "True…but now that I do know I can't stop
      thinking about it! It's driving me crazy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At this Theodore actually looked a little offended. "You cannot
      <em class="calibre8">possibly</em> blame your vast array of mental problems on
      me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, you've certainly exacerbated them," Harry muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Theodore rolled his eyes. "That I can live with. Do you often
      obsess over Slytherin boys?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No…" Harry lied, remembering those few months in second year
      and all of sixth year with Draco back when he was Malfoy and
      Snape…well, whenever anything went wrong, really.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello class," Professor Burbage said, entering the room. "Today
      I thought we'd take a break from our normal topics and instead
      examine how Muggles view magic. Let's start with Divination…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione groaned loudly.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't worry, Harry, you'll be fine," Hermione said, her
      terrified look belying her confident words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know I will," Harry said, spreading some margarine on his
      toast.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You've got a Firebolt!" Ron added, trying his hardest to
      support his supposedly anxious friend.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've had a Firebolt for the other two matches as well," Harry
      pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you lose, you know Draco will never, ever let this go,
      right? As in ever," Neville reminded him gravely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know, but the fact of the matter is that I've got a better
      broom and, what's more, I'm simply <em class="calibre8">better</em> at this than he
      is. The only time I've ever lost is due to circumstances beyond my
      control and if, for some ungodly reason, Dementors invade again,
      I'm catching the Snitch THEN saving everyone's souls," Harry
      vowed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good to see you have your priorities in order," Ginny said
      sarcastically. "And speaking of, if you die, can I have your
      broom?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you guys even listening?" Harry demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I doubt it," Percy replied from a few seats over. "But then,
      today's the day of the big match and everyone seems to have caught
      Quidditch fever."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't," Harry pointed out, ignoring his spazzing friends in
      favor of someone that could usually be counted on to be sane. Well,
      unless his career was involved, but Percy hadn't even graduated
      yet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh trust me, compared to first year I have a great deal of
      enthusiasm for Quidditch," Percy countered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But…you barely support the team," Harry said, confused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bill and Charlie used to play it all the time using my toys as
      Quaffles," Percy explained. "So did the twins, come to think of it.
      Naturally, I was quite anti-Quidditch when I started Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what happened?" Harry wanted to know. You'd think that
      having siblings on the Quidditch team wouldn't help with that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed it didn't," Percy agreed. "Seeing as how first Charlie
      and then Fred and George felt the need to steal my books anytime
      they wanted to play a pick-up game. Still, one does not surviving
      rooming with Oliver Wood for seven years without picking up a basic
      appreciation of the game."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So it was self-preservation, then?" Harry grinned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Like you wouldn't believe."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, Flint," Harry called out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, Potter?" Flint snapped back. They were in the middle of
      the game, after all, and even if Harry – as Seeker – could dally
      around all he wanted to as long as Draco didn't spot the Snitch
      either, that didn't mean that a Chaser like him could.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't go to the other Slytherin matches so I wouldn't know
      is you were there or not, but why are you here?" Harry inquired. "I
      KNOW you graduated."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Despite his annoyance, Flint actually smirked. "True, but
      Dumbledore never comes to the matches and the other teachers all
      just assume I'm repeating someone else's class. I'm actually not
      sure it I should be insulted or relieved it's that easy to convince
      everyone that I somehow managed to fail."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about the other Slytherins?" Harry wanted to know.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about them?" asked Flint.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wouldn't they realize that you're only ever seen at matches and
      possibly practices?" Harry said reasonably.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Flint snorted. "Of course they do, but they have a lot of House
      Pride and not much respect for school rules. Besides, there weren't
      any other prospects for captain."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see," Harry said thoughtfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Great, now bugger off," Flint ordered as he zoomed after Katie
      Bell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine, be that way…now let's see…hey, is that the Snitch?" Harry
      wondered aloud as he hurtled towards it. Fifteen feet away from it,
      his broom lurched. Surprised, Harry turned around to see Draco
      grabbing onto his Firebolt and pulling it back. "What the
      Hell?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco looked positively gleeful. "All's fair in love and-Ow!"
      One of his hands released the broom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded and cast another stinging hex at the other boy to
      make him let go. "Indeed." With that, he hurtled after the Snitch
      again. "Yes! Three for three! I've still got it!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: I'd like to clear up this issue before I get twenty
      reviews about it: No, the fact that Ron 'saw' something that could
      be interpreted as the Triwizard Tournament does not mean he has any
      future knowledge nor has he also come back. The only people who
      have are Harry and Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Review Please!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
