<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>9. Memories are Golden and Death is Cheap - Memories are Golden and Death is Cheap, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="9. Memories are Golden and Death is Cheap"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: I do not own Harry Potter, I do not own Less Wrong's
      Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A/N: This is a fanfiction based on another fanfiction, HPMOR or
      Harry Potter &amp; the Methods of Rationality. I don't know what
      might have happened if Harry had been kissed in chapter, something
      or other, but if he had, maybe this would have happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Memories are Gold and Death is Cheap</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter, through if you called him that he would probably
      lash out at you, stared forward shocked at the creature in front of
      him, it was wrong, it shouldn't exist, it was quite simply an
      anomaly, a thing which he wasn't sure of, what it was, what it did
      or how it existed all passed through his head, but he couldn't
      focus on them, like they were whimsical nonsence in the face of
      such a momentous... thing. It was hard to describe, and he had a
      way with words, he didn't even notice as he walked forward, he
      could see nothing but... it was there, implausible to a point of...
      he couldn't finish the thought, how odd.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Aurors meant to protect the students could only watch with
      little but stunned silence when the boy fell to his knees, as the
      popular saying went 'the eyes are the windows to the soul' the
      Boy-Who-Lived had been kissed by a Dementer, he had no soul, and
      his eyes showed it. Quirrell had raised his wand and roared out a
      spell many deemed him uncabale off, the resulting explosion of
      light was unbearable to the Dementer, it flew into the sky and as a
      popular myth suggested, with the boy's soul.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Most devastated of anyone about the tragedy was Hermione, who
      had put all her effort into the destruction of the creature's which
      had claimed him, it was odd, they hadn't been that close, in all
      honesty she had been more friendly to Blaise Zabini than Harry
      Potter. It was as if she was driven by something deeper than just
      revenge, it came as an even bigger blow to her when she had near
      fatally injured one of the few people Harry could have claimed as a
      friend. She supposed there was some guilt induced emotional trauma,
      but she really couldn't give more than a passing thought to it in
      the cold cell she inhabited, instead she gave thought to her
      friends her family and if they even knew what had happened to her.
      With each day she whittled away more and more, until if there was a
      fragment of what had been a promising student at Hogwarts it was
      buried deep behind cold brown eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The world changed that day, and not for the better, or maybe it
      did, impossible to tell for the Headmaster behind his chair, hardly
      giving a thought to the Defence Professor who was secretly
      plotting, of what he did not know. He stared at his hand tiredly,
      today had been a bad day, and this was a day which Albus added
      another wand to the room he had hid away in for so very long.
      Sometimes he truly remembered the days when each day was a sad day,
      sometimes he couldn't tell the difference, sometimes, just
      sometimes he wished he could still be a hero.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And in a near totally crushed coffin a young boy with a future
      never meant to be screamed in his mind, even as weight pushed rocks
      into bones and he became dust even through various parasites ate
      through his flesh, he could still feel it. He wished his soul had
      been eaten, at least he couldn't still feel the pain, hopefully
      someone would rescue him, but he didn't hold hope, he couldn't tell
      whether it had been a day, a week or a millennia, he didn't hold
      hope of being rescued, after all he had read once that if you give
      a patient morphine all their life, if you took them off it and they
      stubbed their toe it would hurt more than being stabbed, and he
      held hope in the same view.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If only he was up there in the sky, it would be better than this
      eternal nightmare. At least he solved a mystery no one else would
      ever answer, except perhaps if they too shared this experience, and
      if they did, he doubted they would care very much, still a
      scientist to the end, that had sounded like something Professor
      Quirrell might have said, and oddly enough that didn't comfort him
      much at all, neither did the rock which just caved in his last
      intact rib.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
