<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>46. Significant Digits - Significant Digits Chapter 13: Bonus: War, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="46. Significant Digits"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s13" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 13: Bonus: War</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Does the end justify the means? That is possible. But what will
      justify the end? To that question, which historical thought leaves
      pending, rebellion replies: the means.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Albert Camus<em class="calibre7">, The Rebel</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Nurmengard, Győr-Moson, Hungary</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">April 30th, 1945 C.E.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Reg Hig had been afraid all throughout the war against
      Grindelwald. It was a deep and abiding fear that sat in his stomach
      like a stone, soured his mouth into a grimace, and left him
      checking and re-checking the wards compulsively. But he went
      anyway. He was scared and he was always exhausted and he would
      sometimes vomit in nervous heaves until his mouth burned with bile,
      but he went anyway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If he'd had a choice, he probably wouldn't have gone. But he'd
      been compelled by pride and ambition, and so he had volunteered
      with forty other Americans to join the war against the mad
      Hungarian. It was the only way he could have a future in the
      Council. Even at that time, he'd led a sizeable contingent of the
      egalitarian wing, but it was clear that no coward could ever rise
      to great power. His father's generation had proven their mettle
      against centaurs and giants in the west, serving as rangers over
      vast swaths of territory to enforce the Statute of Secrecy. But
      those days were past, thanks to vigilance and genocides. So in
      Hig's time, mighty heroes fought Dark Lords and Ladies. Gellert
      Grindelwald was the darkest of Dark Lords anyone had ever seen,
      untouchable in his mastery and unstoppable in his cruelty. If Hig
      had failed to volunteer, it would have been a black mark on the
      family name.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But he was afraid, and had been since the moment he'd read about
      the Anschluss - when he'd realized the shape of things to come. And
      he'd known from the start, even then, that it would do no good to
      try to hide it. And so he'd owned it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before the raids and with every battle, he'd proclaimed his own
      terror to his allies. Hig had shouted out his fear, and then said
      he was going to fight anyway. If he could do it, then by Mukwooru's
      toe, they could damn well join him and fight by his side. Fear
      meant nothing, he would declare, and then he would roar out about
      all the things they were trying to preserve, and roar about the
      twisted villainy of Grindelwald's "greater good." He would roar for
      them to follow him, and then they would leap to their broomsticks
      and surge into the air and their hearts would sing with fire.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Today had been different.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After the plans had been made, and he'd shaken hands with Albus
      and Fu-min and Dominique and Astrid, Hig had turned to the
      Westphalians and Argentines and Brazilians, all of whom were now
      under his command, and he had said nothing. He'd just looked each
      of them in the eye in turn. When you needed to say something good
      and true - when you needed the best words - he'd long ago learned
      that each person had to write those words for themselves. Hig met
      their gazes, and looked at them steadily for a meaningful moment,
      and he knew that they each found their own song. And he had found
      that there was no longer any fear in his own heart. There was just
      a deep calm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even Limpel Tineagar had been solemn and appreciative today, and
      she was the most annoying witch he'd ever met. Normally, no plan
      was good enough for her, no leader was smart enough for her, and no
      speech was inspiring enough for her. He'd barely known her when
      they left for Europe last year, having spoken to the tall,
      half-blooded witch only during Council debates, and he almost
      wished that was still true. She took nothing on faith, and she
      never seemed to stir with a flicker of passion. But today she had
      clasped his hand and kissed him on the cheek.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Today they were all heroes, and that would be true even if they
      didn't see tomorrow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hig was flying at the rear of the ragged formation, high over
      Hungary. They'd started off in a neat V, but it had degraded to a
      shapeless mass as they struggled to keep up with Momo. Momo was the
      pacer, and so he had to keep up a steady and unflagging maximum
      speed on his broom. Three hours and twelve minutes of flight from
      their Austrian origin should bring them directly over Nurmengard…
      but only if Momo kept at top speed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Clouds blew past, above and below. A dense floor of puffy
      cumulonimbus anvils and a wispy ceiling of cirrus scratchings. Hig
      wondered if you could practice neladoracht from <em class="calibre7">within</em> the
      clouds, and if so, what their fortunes would be today. This would
      be a day of beginnings and endings… but whose beginning, and whose
      ending?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They were something like twenty thousand feet above the ground,
      breathing easily and staying warm with magical assistance, but Hig
      was still relieved when Momo brought his broom to a swift halt.
      Most of the Americans overshot him and had to swing back around.
      They gathered around Momo, many flexing stiff fingers or shifting
      in their perches.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two groups of six separated out from the rest, sorting
      themselves into Aleph Group and Beth Group. The others divided
      themselves into groups of twelve: Gimel and Daleth Groups. It was
      difficult to speak - something about the way the sound traveled
      through the intervening air between two Bubblehead Charms distorted
      it badly - but it had all been arranged beforehand at Dumbledore's
      direction. The Americans were here to destroy the Dogs, and so very
      much depended on their success.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At Hig's hand signal, all four groups shifted their positions
      and began swooping downwards in widespread formations, and the
      assault was on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It took about fifteen minutes to descend. Several of them kept
      up protection spells, while others worked on keeping them as hidden
      as possible, while still others tried to pry a clear way through
      the detectors as they were encountered. They met success in all
      three tasks - not surprising, considering the assembled might of
      the American expeditionary force and their careful preparation for
      the day's attack.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Soon, Nurmengard was in sight, jutting into the sky at them like
      an accusing finger. The fortress was a single thick tower of black
      stone, square and solid, topped with a ziggurat. It was built into
      the face of a cliff, overlooking wide plains of grass. Giant
      natural statues of karst from Bükk sat lumpily in the fields around
      Nurmengard; the bulbous grey rock formations might normally have
      been beautiful, but in this context they seemed eerie and
      organic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hig's gaze was drawn to a sky-platform that hung in the air over
      the fortress. There was a guard, and Hig saw when the man noticed
      them. Curses rained down and took the sentry down, but not before
      he raised the alarm. That was all right, though. That was the
      plan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Within a few minutes they were within a hundred yards of
      Nurmengard, and the guards - the Hírnökei - were pouring out. The
      four squads separated, moving to assigned places. Gimel Group and
      Daleth Group (Hig's own) engaged. They swooped in and out, diving
      as if they were Seekers, and dodged curses. The Americans
      concentrated on their defenses, working together to support
      shields. As was usual, each of them had paired off with an attacker
      in that odd instinctive way that happened during a battle, and the
      matches appeared to be even ones for the most part. Stunners
      whipped up and down, and a few found their marks. When the
      Americans were able, they cast <em class="calibre7">Deprimo</em> on the ground
      around their attackers, trying to disrupt footing and generate
      mayhem, and several of the witches in Gimel also began emptying out
      mokeskin pouches full of Bluebell Flames. The Hírnökei spent some
      time in attacking with <em class="calibre7">Fumos</em> and other gaseous effects,
      perhaps not realizing their attackers had Bubblehead Charms on or
      perhaps hoping to disrupt their vision, before settling down to
      more traditional stunners. They had the red handprint insignia of
      the Veres Kezek on their robes, so perhaps they were too used to
      murdering Muggles: the "Red Hands" had been last deployed to
      Poland, as far as Hig knew, and they had left that area a bloody
      ruin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Meanwhile, Aleph and Beth went to the side of Nurmengard that
      rose straight from the cliff below. Hig saw them swoop away from
      the corner of his eye as he swerved his broom to avoid a curse. No
      defenders could come out on that side to try to curse them, and
      there were no windows. As long as they kept very low and close to
      the wall, they'd be almost completely obscured. Nurmengard was
      magnificent and terrifying, but it was not originally designed to
      be a military base, and its design had shortcomings. Aleph and Beth
      were trying to take advantage of that to breach the fortress walls,
      as though they intended to storm the fortress by that route.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fifteen minutes later, which seemed like an eternity of swerving
      and casting and screaming, Aleph and Beth Groups both flew back
      into sight, soaring up from below the cliff's edge to catch the
      defenders by surprise. They took down three or four, although that
      still left at least twenty.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was supposed to be the signal for Gimel to disengage, but
      they'd already lost five of their number. Gimel's leader, Momo,
      shot out red sparks as he flew. He corkscrewed to avoid a cascade
      of curses from the duo of Hírnökei that he had been fighting, and
      the red sparks pinwheeled out behind him, flittering brightly. It
      was the signal for Daleth to take Gimel's place. Hig immediately
      broke off the fight, along with the seven remaining members of
      Daleth Group. From wherever they were on the battlefield, they flew
      to Nurmengard's roof.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were still two guards there, firing at the attackers;
      Grindelwald was cautious. Hig and several others on Daleth flew up
      the wall, holding tight to its side. They were to the top and over
      the edge before the guards could react. One brandished his wand and
      shouted, "Állj!" Hig thought that meant "stop." He did not
      oblige.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It wasn't a pretty fight - at least one of the guards was
      unusually skilled, firing curses with remarkable rapidity, while
      the other guard was actually willing to cast the Killing Curse.
      Even in war, that was unusual, and despite outnumbering the guards
      four to one, Hig lost another of his soldiers before it was
      done.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hig assessed Daleth Group quickly. Seven total, including
      himself. Almost all Westphalians, including Tineagar, Sammy Shohet,
      and three others. One Argentine had also made it to this point: a
      skinny and handsome bald man with a toothbrush mustache. Hig
      couldn't remember his name - the chaos had cleared it right out of
      his head. Didn't matter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They were inside in moments. Dumbledore had been able to tell
      them about much of the layout - who knew how he'd found out - and
      so they knew that it was only a short flight of stairs down to a
      large and defensible storage room. There was a door, but it was
      unenchanted, and so Hig's group blew it apart and stormed in. There
      was no one else there, although surely that would soon change. The
      outside war and the diversionary attacks at the base of the
      fortress might have given them some breathing room to breach, but
      there was a limit to how effective that could be. It was the best
      advantage that highly mobile attackers could wield against
      stationary defenders, but the Hírnökei were here in force: perhaps
      the whole of the Veres Kezek and maybe another squad like the Záh
      Kardja, besides.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hig, the Argentinian, and Shohet took up guarding position at
      the other door, reinforcing it and putting up hasty wards. Tineagar
      and the other four knelt and touched their wands to the fitted
      stone underfoot. They put their free hands on their neighbors'
      shoulders, so that the five of them were interlocked in a pentagon.
      They began casting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nurmengard was harnessed to a ley line, and that power fairly
      thrummed through the building. It was a mighty work, enacted by one
      of the most powerful wizards in the world and his ablest
      lieutenants, but it was also limited. Almost all of the ley energy
      went into the enchantments that prevented time-turning, apparating,
      and any transfiguration of the fortress walls. It was a seat of
      power and a prison… but it was no Wizengamot or Qufu. It had
      weaknesses.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was shouting from the other side of the door in angry
      Hungarian. "Dögölj meg! Rothadjanak ki az anyád szemei!" Hig didn't
      understand much of it… definitely ordering him to die like an
      animal, and something about his mother. Curses smashed into the
      door, along with disenchantments. The wood glowed red in spots, and
      blackened in others, but Shohet countered with a Flame-Freezing
      Charm, and Hig put up another <em class="calibre7">Colloportus</em>. They needed to
      hold for at least a few minutes, but it was just going to get
      harder with every second.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Guests are knocking!" Hig shouted at the quintet kneeling in
      the room behind him, as he froze the door hinges in place with
      <em class="calibre7">Immobulus</em> to stop a Hírnöke from blasting them free. There
      was no reply, and he probably shouldn't have said anything. If they
      could hear him, they could hear the curses, anyway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A nagyobb jó érdekében!" came the cry from the other side of
      the door. Their slogan, which every combatant knew by now: "for the
      greater good."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was silence from the other side of the door, so Hig and
      Shohet simultaneously sealed off any cracks above, below, or
      through the door with an immediate and hastily conjured wall of
      iron. If your opponent was silent, then they were probably
      transfiguring something nasty that would drown you in your own
      blood with noxious gas.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They never found out if they'd been right, or if the Hírnökei
      were just deciding what to try next, because Tineagar and the other
      four suddenly succeeded in charming the floor beneath them. One
      moment, the seven members of Daleth Group were trying to guard a
      door, and the next… well, it was as though the floor dropped right
      out from under them without actually moving. The Butterball Charm
      was weak, but it was enough so that all seven of them and all of
      the storage lockers in the room slipped right through a floor that
      was suddenly too liquid to support them. There was a tremendous
      crash and painful thump as everything and everyone in the room
      dropped down through seven feet of fitted stone right into the room
      below.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was their objective. A direct fight to bring them to this
      point would have taken hours and gone through three defensive
      chokepoints, if they could have done it at all. Dumbledore had said
      that a quick swim would be easier, and he had been right. He had
      also been right about what was in the room: seven orange crystal
      balls, spangled with glowing red stars. Satomi's Dogs, spoken of in
      legend and acquired by Grindelwald at a terrible cost.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore was wrong about one thing, though. He'd said that
      Grindelwald would trust no one with access to this room, but there
      were three people waiting there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One of the defending Hírnökei was crushed by a storage locker,
      hammered into the stone wetly, but the others barely even paused in
      their surprise. Instinct took over, and the defenders - Záh Kardja,
      as Hig had thought - attacked. They got off three curses in a
      matter of moments, while Hig was still struggling to find his wand
      in a slurry of liquid stone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Stupefy! Stupefy!"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Avada Kedavra!"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Shohet fell, stunned and then murdered in quick succession. The
      Argentinian fell stunned. Hig found his wand, as did another member
      of Daleth, but it was still too slow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Stupefy!"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Stupefy! Stupefy!"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Latinate curses had the raw accent of Hungarian, but they
      were no less effective. Attackers dropped stiffly to the ground. By
      his count, only Hig was left. Still, only one person was needed to
      smash these damn crystal balls. He raised his wand and successfully
      cursed one of the two defenders, "<em class="calibre7">Stupefy!",</em> and then
      turned his wand to cast again in quick succession.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not quick enough. The other Hírnöke hit him with an
      <em class="calibre7">Immobulus</em> in the same instant, and Hig felt his body
      stiffen. He leaned to the side, caught in an awkward position with
      one arm thrust forward, and felt himself tilt until he came to a
      rest against the wall, still upright. The Hírnöke must be a
      Legilimens, and want quick answers, Hig thought, cursing inwardly.
      He was not a Occlumens, and couldn't close his eyes while
      frozen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Hírnöke stalked over to him. She was a nasty-looking woman.
      Not that Hig thought he was any prize, but this witch had long
      curving scars all across her face. They looked like punishment, but
      she had the sword emblem of the Záh Kardja: they might be a point
      of pride.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Véget vetnénk minden szenvedésnek. Megállítanátok minket?
      Bolondok," she spat at him through cleft lips. He had not the
      faintest idea what that meant, and he couldn't have answered if
      he'd wanted to. His heart sank. If Satomi's Dogs remained intact,
      then everything was lost.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Expelliarmus!"</em> called a voice Hig recognized as
      Tineagar's.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd miscounted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Hírnöke's wand was ripped from her fingers and soared over
      to Tineagar, who was still rising to her feet. The American snapped
      it neatly out of the air, and darted her wand in Hig's direction
      just long enough to <em class="calibre7">Innervate</em> him. Hig went sprawling
      against the wall, choking on a magically-sustained breath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hig, you okay?" Tineagar called, leveling her wand back on the
      Záh Kardja.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," he gasped. "Don't wait, just do it <em class="calibre7">now!</em>" Every
      second they delayed was another second that Grindelwald was
      channeling power through these crystals. Hig didn't understand how
      it worked - he suspected that no one but Dumbledore and Grindelwald
      could have even hazarded a guess - but they were some vital part to
      Grindelwald's invincible strength. This was April 30th, and every
      part of the plan had to go correctly. It was a masterpiece of
      strategy and tactics, and Hig had been left in awe when Momo and
      Dumbledore had devised it, but it would all fail unless they
      destroyed Satomi's Dogs. No time for discussion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Reducto!</em>" cast Tineagar, leveling her wand at one of
      the Dogs. It exploded into pinkish glass dust as the blue bolt
      struck it, destroyed in a moment. Tineagar paused to gather her
      strength into her tall and thin body, then moved from one Dog to
      the next, destroying each of the seven in turn, as quickly as she
      could.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Above them, Hig heard an explosion. But it didn't matter that
      the rest of the attackers were soon to be storming down upon them,
      since Tineagar had just turned and obliterated the last of the
      crystal balls. Hig readied himself, even as the Hírnöke snarled
      something completely foreign, heavy with bitterness. "Láttuk a
      jóslatokat és tudjuk, hogy még győzni fogunk. Lesz egy ember akit a
      villám megjelölt és ő kioltja majd a csillagokat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tineagar cut off any more chatter from the Hungarian with a curt
      stunner, then turned to Hig. "We did it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. But it will, I think, be the last thing we do." Hig moved
      to a corner of the room. They'd have to drop down to get him, and
      he'd get a clear shot at the first one at least. He wished they had
      the time and strength to revive their frozen friends, but that
      would just leave them unable to defend themselves when the attack
      came.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As she mimicked him and moved to a different corner, Tineagar
      said, "It was worth it." She glanced at the stunned enemies. "I
      can't abide this nonsense about the ends justifying the means…
      about how they want to fix everything, so all the murder and
      madness is worth it." Tineagar raised her wand, and set her
      features grimly. "I don't care what kind of good you think you're
      <em class="calibre7">going</em> to do, and I don't care what kind of person you
      think you are. It's your actions that matter, not your goals. To
      the pit with tyrants and all their people."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her kind of irreducible skepticism had its uses. He shouldn't
      have been so hasty to judge her. Not that it mattered, now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello? Reg? Sammy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hig blinked. He called up, surprised, "Momo?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes!" called his ally. "Get up here - we can't block the
      corridor much longer! We need to form a line of defense!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But before he'd even finished speaking, Hig and Tineagar were
      beginning to <em class="calibre7">Innervate</em> the fallen (except for poor Shohet)
      as quickly as they could manage. That wasn't very quickly at all,
      given their exhaustion, but it was fast enough that six witches and
      wizards were able to join their comrades before the Hírnökei could
      break through to them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Americans' blood was up, and they roared their anger when
      the Hírnökei came - the remains of Veres Kezek and Záh Kardja. The
      Hírnökei shouted their own fanatical screams in return. And there
      was war. Bloody and bitter war, fought in the halls of Nurmengard
      and atop its battlement. Many died that day, and others would long
      bear the curse scars for years to come.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You probably know the rest of the story - or at least, you know
      the romantic parts about Dumbledore and Grindelwald, and how
      ambition soured into madness, and love curdled after a single
      tragic accident. Certainly, you know about the great duel between
      the two. It is said to be the greatest duel ever yet fought, justly
      citing the long hours over which it ceaselessly raged, the
      unstoppable force of Dumbledore's skill, and the immovable object
      of Grindelwald's defenses.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Grindelwald held the Elder Wand, and was sustained by Satomi's
      Dogs, and guarded by the Iron Halo. While it is known that he stole
      the Elder Wand from Mykew Gregorovitch, it is not yet known how he
      came by his other great devices. But they were all powerful, and
      they preserved him against all ills, like an unbreachable barrier a
      hundred metres high.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There are twenty-eight books about Grindelwald's War, seven
      books about the rivalry and lives of Dumbledore and Grindelwald,
      and three books just about that single duel. And yet it is certain
      that he would never have fallen, Dumbledore notwithstanding -
      <em class="calibre7">all else</em> notwithstanding - had the Americans not succeeded
      in breaching Nurmengard and destroying Satomi's Dogs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Reg Hig learned something about Limpel Tineagar that day. He
      learned about her steel, and he learned her value. And Hig took her
      words about the "greater good" to heart, too. He would remember
      them.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
