<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>46. Significant Digits - Significant Digits Chapter 15: Pip's Day Out, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="46. Significant Digits"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s15" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 15: Pip's Day Out</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">GRANGER ON AMERICAN TOUR: 'A LOVELY HOLIDAY IN THE STATES'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">- <em class="calibre7">Daily Prophet</em> headline for March 14th, 1999</p>
      <p class="calibre6">STATES IN TREATY TALKS</p>
      <p class="calibre6">- <em class="calibre7">Daily Prophet</em> headline for March 16th, 1999</p>
      <p class="calibre6">LONDON EUPHORIC RING EXPOSED</p>
      <p class="calibre6">- <em class="calibre7">Daily Prophet</em> headline for March 17th, 1999</p>
      <p class="calibre6">LINNAEAN LUNACY: LOVEGOOD ACCUSED OF SMUGGLING 4X BEASTS</p>
      <p class="calibre6">- <em class="calibre7">Daily Prophet</em> headline for March 20th, 1999</p>
      <p class="calibre6">TREATY FAILS IN USA: RISING SUPPORT FOR 'HONOURABLE'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">- <em class="calibre7">Daily Prophet</em> headline for March 30th, 1999</p>
      <p class="calibre6">AFRICAN SWEEP: NIGERIA, FREE STATES IN TREATY</p>
      <p class="calibre6">- <em class="calibre7">Daily Prophet</em> headline for April 1st, 1999</p>
      <p class="calibre6">BULSTRODE ARRESTED IN CONNECTION WITH DIAGON BOMBING</p>
      <p class="calibre6">- <em class="calibre7">Daily Prophet</em> headline for April 2nd, 1999</p>
      <p class="calibre6">BULSTRODE GOES BEFORE WIZENGAMOT: CARROW: 'SHALLOW POLITICAL
      PLOY'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">- <em class="calibre7">Daily Prophet</em> headline for April 3rd, 1999</p>
      <p class="calibre6">BULSTRODE RELEASED: N'GOMA: 'KNOWS NOTHING ABOUT ANYTHING.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">- <em class="calibre7">Daily Prophet</em> headline for April 4th, 1999</p>
      <p class="calibre6">TOWER TO OPEN FOR SQUIBS</p>
      <p class="calibre6">- <em class="calibre7">Daily Prophet</em> headline for April 5th, 1999</p>
      <p class="calibre6">TREATY SURPRISE: WESTPHALIA REOPENS ISSUE WITH NEW DEMANDS</p>
      <p class="calibre6">- <em class="calibre7">Daily Prophet</em> headline for April 5th, 1999</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">April 7th, 1999</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">5:30 a.m.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Outskirts of Curd, Tipperary, Ireland</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pip kept up a quick step as he walked down the winding path that
      led to Curd. He tried to look smart, with his head high and
      shoulders back. He was a representative of the Government of
      magical Britain and of the Tower, and he had to look the part.
      Considering how busy things were going to be back at the Tower, he
      should thank his lucky stars to be out on delivery duty,
      anyway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd been here before, on similar errands. The cobblestone path
      was not very well-maintained, since it was only used by the
      relatively few wizards and witches who visited the city. You
      weren't allowed to Apparate or fly directly into Curd; you had to
      go to a "welcome platform" (a cleared dirt area a half-mile away
      from the city) and then walk down the "welcome path" (on which
      rough cobblestones you might stub your toe) through the "welcome
      gate" (which crawled with wards and precautions). Considering the
      names of everything, he thought sourly, it wasn't very ruddy
      welcoming at all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a chill in the air at this early hour. It felt
      pleasant on Pip's face, since it didn't touch the rest of him
      thanks to a Warming Charm. It reminded him of something he could
      remember his dad liked to say, quoting from a book and tugging on
      his beard with solemnity: "There is no quality in this world that
      is not what it is merely by contrast." Pip felt vaguely guilty at
      the thought. He'd never been much for reading, and particularly not
      Muggle books. He really should try to read <em class="calibre7">something</em> this
      month - a real book, not just <em class="calibre7">The Adventures of Martin Miggs,
      the Mad Muggle</em>. Wasn't there a new Lockhart out? He'd liked
      the vampire one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Curd lay before him - the town of towers. Low sandstone
      buildings with sloping walls were all topped with at least one
      conical tower. None of the towers were very high. Pip supposed that
      was probably because the gobbies couldn't build Floo networks, and
      it would be a bother to go up and down a lot of stairs. Maybe that
      would change, soon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pip sighed as he marched down the path. The town looked like it
      had been made out of a child's toy blocks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few minutes along, he was finally nearing the outskirts. He
      passed a pair of guards sitting in a small pavilion next to the
      welcome gate, and nodded to them with great dignity as he passed
      through. The two goblins were armored in silver plate: cuirass,
      cuisses, and vambraces. They didn't wear any helmets, so he could
      see them grin horribly at him. Their short spears sat on a rack
      nearby, but they didn't even bother to get up. Maybe they
      recognized him - Pip had a bit of trouble telling goblins apart
      (except for Podrut in Material Methods, who had a distinctive notch
      in his right ear), but the goblins never seemed to have the same
      problem with humans.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wait, should he have said something to them? He'd just nodded to
      them and hadn't said anything. They hadn't looked bothered, though.
      Just bored. But he didn't want them to think he was rude, or that
      the Tower was rude, or anything. J.C. had said that goblins valued
      truth more than anything, and that they were suspicious of
      politeness, but Pip thought that was probably just something they
      wanted everyone to think. It probably made people trust Gringott's
      more. Although J.C. did seem like she would know, as a senior auror
      - she was all sharp edges and grimness. Plus he'd heard that she
      had some gobbie blood. But that might just be one of the rumors
      probies passed around during training, on account of her wide mouth
      and the largish ears that poked out of her curly black hair, and
      because she was so skinny. It <em class="calibre7">could</em> be true, but there
      were rumors like that about everyone who was even a little
      different. Tall people had giantish ancestry, pretty people had
      veela ancestry, people with bad teeth had mermish ancestry… Silly,
      really. When he'd been stationed in Nurmengard, there had been a
      German auror with really red hair, and he'd heard someone whisper
      with complete seriousness that she had <em class="calibre7">phoenix</em> ancestry,
      which didn't even make any <em class="calibre7">sense</em>. That would have meant
      that someone had <em class="calibre7">been</em> with a phoenix at some point, and
      then… what, hatched a baby with it? It was as silly and weird as
      when people said that the Goddess had unicorn ancestry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Oh, Merlin. He'd forgotten about the guards. Well, he'd gone way
      too far to turn back and say anything now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pip stepped off the welcome path onto the large flagstones of
      Curd's streets. An extremely obese goblin man wheeling a little
      cart squinted at him suspiciously, but said nothing. Not a friendly
      lot, here.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Okay, so let's see… he needed to go down this street, and then
      left at the bronze statue of the angry goblin with his fist raised
      (Crad the Callow, Pip thought it was), then another left at the
      town market, and then straight on to the Burgod Bur. That was where
      they put up notices and delivered regulations, and Pip had a stack
      of them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Goblin names were a nightmare, really. He didn't know how they
      kept it sorted out. Curd's government was in the Burgod Bur, while
      Ackle's was in the Urgod Ur, and if you confused those they thought
      it was <em class="calibre7">really funny</em> even though they sounded almost
      identical to humans. And they kept using the same names with no
      surname: the Chief Goldsmith of Gringotts right now was Haddad, not
      to be confused with Haddad the Silent or Haddad the Hallowed from
      goblin history (wait, was it Hodrod the Hallowed?). And all the
      buildings were called things like Poddle Pol, Sugworn Sug,
      Togrigworn Tog, and whatnot. Impossible to keep them straight! He
      knew that the way place-name syllables were repeated meant
      something about the purpose of the building, but he'd never been
      much for Gobbledegook. It all just sounded silly to him, instead…
      like the babbling of a baby.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pip followed the street, glancing around as he walked. Part of
      the reason they did this by hand, instead of by owl, was that it
      gave them a chance to take a look at things. Tourism in Curd or
      Ackle was discouraged, and so the only way to keep tabs on the
      goblins was with regular official visits. Pip knew that they'd been
      a lot more intrusive in the past, with wizarding inspectors and
      regulators and so on, always barging in on the gobbies and making
      sure everything was on the up-and-up. That made sense to him, since
      every witch and wizard knew how violent they could be. But that had
      all been scaled back over the past few years - partly as part of
      the new cooperative arrangements that the Ministry had made
      (putting the Tribunes in the Wizengamot), and partly because so
      many government employees had been sacked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All the layoffs had brought down Minister for Magic Junius
      Simplewort Smith (although thankfully not Senior Undersecretary
      Weasley, who Pip thought was a good bloke), but no one was hired
      back, even under new Minister for Magic Carmel N'goma. Even if the
      Ministry wanted to start poking their noses into goblin business
      all the time, like they used to do, they probably wouldn't have the
      staff. The sacked inspectors and bureaucrats had all been offered
      training and loans to start new businesses, and most everyone had
      moved on with their lives (well, except for those who had started
      supporting the Malfoys).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The statue of Crad the Callow was in sight, and Pip walked past
      it and turned left. He wasn't sure why ol' Crad had a statue - the
      inscription was in Gobbledegook - but he assumed it was probably
      because of some rebellion or another. Professor Binns had droned on
      for hours about the rebellions, when Pip was in school.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pip turned left again once he reached the market, which was
      almost deserted at this hour. The handful of vendors pulling canvas
      covers off of their carts and tables paid him no mind except for an
      occasional glare. Honestly, Pip couldn't help but think gobbies
      were an ungrateful lot. Goblins controlled a third of the money in
      the entire country through Gringotts (which bank they'd taken
      <em class="calibre7">from wizards</em> only a century and a half ago), and he knew
      they used that power all the time to help themselves out. Further,
      the Wand Ban had been repealed, and now they were allowed to
      legally buy and use wands. They'd even been given a seat on the
      Wizengamot with that Suffrage Decree, six years ago! You'd think
      they'd show a little gratitude towards wizards and witches, these
      days, considering what had been done for them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Burgod Bur wasn't very impressive… just another sandstone
      building with slotted windows and a tower. There was Gobbledegook
      carved in above the door, and a pair of guards, but it was
      otherwise indistinguishable from most other Curdish buildings. It's
      odd… Gringotts was a beautiful building of white marble, with Greek
      columns and bronze doors and glittering lamps. But Curd and Ackle
      were both very plain places. Pip did have to admit that he'd seen
      very little of the two goblin settlements, but even with his
      limited perspective, there was a clear disjunction between them and
      the bank.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pip gave the armored guards a nod as he walked in. These were
      more attentive, but they just nodded their helmeted heads in
      return. They were each armed with fancy golden partisans which
      probably had long names and thousand-year-histories, and which
      probably cost ten times as much as Pip's house.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A goblin in a dapper black suit stood just inside the Burgod
      Bur, and stepped forward as Pip approached. Pip thought he
      recognized the goblin, but it was hard to be sure... He hesitated
      slightly, then risked a greeting: "Hullo, Nagrod."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The goblin smiled toothily and bowed slightly. "Auror Pirrip.
      What a surprise to see you!" Almost certainly a lie - Nagrod was
      very good at his job. Pip wasn't entirely sure what that job
      actually was, but it was bloody well clear at this point that some
      large part of it involved knowing the name, purpose, history, and
      shoe size of every visitor to Curd.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, they need someone to plod on out with these things," Pip
      said. He unbuckled the slicebox at his belt and reached inside,
      pulling out a sheaf of parchment. "A new decree from the Wizengamot
      and a new rejuvenation policy from the Tower."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, the two pillars of your society, handing down rules to us,"
      Nagrod said, managing to sound completely neutral. "May I ask?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pip handed the sheaf over to the goblin. "The new decree is not
      very interesting. Guess that's both bad news and good news. It's
      just about extending the Floo Network."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Until recently, the Government had always declined to put the
      settlements of any Beings on the network, but they'd decided to
      reverse that policy and offer the services of the Floo Network
      Authority to anyone who requested it, Beings included. Here in
      Curd, that meant they could connect with places like Dublin or
      Helga's Roost, if they so desired. That might make travel to
      England somewhat easier, since they could Floo to Dublin and then
      buy a portkey.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Must have been quite the stir in Ackle over this, though,"
      Nagrod said, taking the parchments. "Will the heirs of Togrod Teulu
      be putting themselves one fireplace away from the Ministry, I
      wonder?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pip didn't venture a comment on that, since that sounded like
      gobbie politics. He buckled the slicebox back on his belt, instead,
      fixing the thin wooden box back in place. It had been his
      suggestion to use them for carrying parchment. Well, not so much
      his deliberate <em class="calibre7">suggestion</em>… he'd just assumed that was
      their purpose, and so he'd asked for one at the DMLE when they gave
      him this assignment, yesterday. Chief Auror Diggory hadn't known
      what he was talking about, but Pip had gone back to the Tower and
      asked around, and Mr. Potter himself had been delighted by the
      idea. He'd called them an unintentional byproduct of testing, and
      said that they had loads of the useless things, and that Pip was a
      genius. Pip had told his mother about it, and she'd baked him a
      Whirlibird Cake to celebrate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nagrod glanced over the first few sheets, before looking back
      up. The goblin's long nose was crooked at the arch, and looked more
      like a hawk's beak than a nose. He blinked owlishly for a moment,
      then asked Pip, "And what news from the Tower?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Even less exciting for you, I'm afraid. They're opening up
      rejuvenation to Muggles. Direct relatives and Squibs and all that."
      Pip shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This would be big news in London, Godric's Hollow, and other
      human settlements… but less so for Beings, who were already
      enjoying the benefits of rejuvenation and Safety Poles. Madame
      Bones had put precautions in place to make sure everything went in
      an orderly fashion; there were going to be special groups of aurors
      stationed at the Poles, in addition to the normal pairs of clinic
      workers who manned those stations, to make sure that the Tower
      didn't get mobbed as it first opened its doors to Muggles. It was
      still only a small fraction of Muggles, but there was always a rush
      whenever any new group was allowed to rejuvenate. When British
      merfolk signed on to the Treaty for Health and Life in late 1997,
      Pip had heard that they were shipping in water tanks of old and
      sick and dying half-people from the Black Lake and Loch Lomond for
      a solid two days. Before his time in the Tower, of course, but the
      other aurors talked about it (mostly because of the smell).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This will be a busy day for you, then," Nagrod said. He lowered
      the sheaf of papers, after looking carefully for any surprises.
      "What is a 'direct relative,' though? Mother, brother, uncle,
      grandfather, cousin, brother-in-law, second cousin twice removed…
      you will be having many arguments about this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not me… at least, not today," Pip said, brightly. "I'm out on
      delivery, all day. Here, Dublin, and Helga's Roost, then over to
      Godric's Hollow and Ackle and down to Wales and all over London."
      His list of destinations was a long one… these decrees went out to
      every sizeable community in Britain. "And anyway, they spell out
      who's eligible, but they're usually really soft about that kind of
      thing. Anyone who's seriously hurt… they whisk them right in, as
      fast as they can."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really..? How interesting… say, where else are you heading,
      today?" Nagrod said, thoughtfully. Pip didn't like where this was
      going, and he'd spent enough time here. He still had that bloody
      long walk back to the "welcome platform." And honestly, what sort
      of question was that? Was Nagrod trying to chat him up?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pip briefly considered what that would be like, and then cleared
      his throat loudly. "Yes, well, I better be going. You'll put those
      up, will you?" he said, uncomfortably.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It would be my pleasure, Auror Pip," Nagrod said, smiling
      widely. Sharp little teeth shone whitely from behind thick little
      lips.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pip nodded firmly and - he hoped - professionally, and got out
      of there. Today was going to be a long day, full of cryptic
      conversations, he could tell already.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">April 7th, 1999</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">3:01 p.m.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Diagon Alley, London, England</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Three Galleons, young man. Final offer. That's a great deal of
      money for just a few minutes of discomfort," said Jerina. "You
      won't even feel it… it'll be numb as a stone. Then a very quick
      turn of the knife, and it'll be done in moments. Two spells later,
      you'll be walking out of here just as you came in, only with quite
      a bit more coin. Likho will be right here… she'll watch and make
      sure it's done right. And this knife is as sharp as a razor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, thank you, ma'am," Pip said, as pleasantly and courteously
      as possible under the circumstances. One did not trifle with a hag,
      even a Nutcombe hag. Even if you were an auror and you were there
      on official business. No trifling. "I apologize, but I think it
      would make me uncomfortable, and I must decline."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a waste, is all," said Jerina, sadly. "Young fellow like
      you, athletic type… good calves. Firm and lean. Four Galleons."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Jerina," said Likho, warningly. The elder hag stood nearby,
      arms crossed. Stout almost to the point of obesity, with a spine
      that twisted into a hump and greyish skin, Likho was firm with her
      flock. Two long yellow teeth jutted up past her stern lips.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jerina grimaced, scrunching up her wart-covered face in
      suffering.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pip had seen a play once about an Italian named Ugolino. The
      leading actor had torn at his clothes and howled at the sky and
      beat the ground with his fists. He had wept until his eyes looked
      raw and his mouth was a round "O" of unhappiness. And yet there was
      far more pain in Jerina's expression right at this moment, twisted
      in agony and need, as she begged to be allowed to eat his
      flesh.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He almost agreed, just to give her some relief.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Jerina…" Likho repeated, and the younger hag turned away,
      slamming her fists down against her legs. Jerina stalked away, out
      of the parlor and out of sight. Pip didn't permit himself a sigh or
      a change in posture, but kept a pleasant smile stiffly pasted on
      his mouth. His cheeks hurt from maintaining it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Likho watched Jerina go, then turned to Pip. "I apologize, Auror
      Pirrip. She is young, and it is difficult."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I understand, ma'am, and accept your apology," he said. <em class="calibre7">Did
      that sound false? Damn it, Pip… Be sincere be sincere be sincere be
      sincere…</em> "I hope that Miss Jerina soon feels better."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Likho nodded absently, turning to look back at where Jerina had
      gone. The older hag's eyes were a tawny and beautiful gold, quite
      out of keeping with the rest of her physical hideousness. Pip had
      read that a hag's eyes were always blood-red - like Jerina's - but
      he supposed that the effect must be a result of Likho's abstinence
      from human meat. She was famously self-controlled, which was why
      she led the Nutcombe Society.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tell me, Auror Pirrip, about the Tower," Likho said to him.
      "Tell me about the man. I've met him, twice, but only on formal
      occasions. What sort of man is he?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pip thought carefully - very carefully - for a moment, then
      said, "Well, ma'am, he's very strange… very much in his own head.
      He makes jokes that no one understands, like calling aurors 'red
      shirts.' And I think he's a little lonely. But maybe that's like
      most people in power." He considered for another long moment. He
      didn't want to give a bad impression of Mr. Potter. But neither was
      he going to lie or dissemble. Not here. No trifling. "I think
      probably the most important thing about him is that he doesn't want
      anyone to get hurt."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Likho nodded, and Pip got the impression that she was no longer
      paying attention. Hags could see things that no one else could see.
      It wasn't the future, exactly… They just seemed to reach bizarre
      and inexplicable conclusions than everyone else - one famous hag
      had insisted that she was meant to be married to a teenage boy that
      she'd just met. That had made headlines for weeks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Honoria Nutcombe herself could only ever say that they could
      "see all the things that were real." Pip wasn't enough of a scholar
      to know what that meant, so he only abided by Madame Bones' advice
      to the Shichinin, which he'd overheard last year: "When dealing
      with a hag, gentlemen, be scrupulously polite and expeditiously
      brief."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">These hags, at least, were trying to be civilized. He didn't
      know what they ate, when they couldn't get someone to agree to sell
      them a bit of themselves, but it seemed quite difficult for them.
      Maybe they didn't really <em class="calibre7">have</em> to eat at all. Pip had no
      interest in loitering about to find out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a bit, Likho spoke up again, asking, "And does he know the
      cause of the narrowing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pip had not the smallest idea what that might mean, and so he
      erred on the side of caution. "I don't know, ma'am."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well. Thank you, then, Auror Pirrip. Good afternoon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">All day like this</em>, Pip thought glumly, as he bowed
      slightly and left the Nutcombe Society. His smile was still
      plastered on his face. He'd already been to Curd, Dublin, Helga's
      Roost, and Godric's Hollow, and at every stop there was someone
      asking him things that were entirely unanswerable about recent
      events or the Tower or rejuvenation, asking about things that their
      seers or oneiromancers or neladoracht had told them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Maybe there was a reason Diggory kept sending him on these
      assignments.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">April 7th, 1999</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">3:04 p.m.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Salor Sprig, The Forbidden Forest, Scotland</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, sir, I don't know what the meaning of 'is,' is," Pip said,
      patiently. "Just the usual meaning, I suppose."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Roonwit rumbled deep in his chest and struck the dirt with an
      idle hoof. "What is usual to me may not be usual to you, human. The
      subordination of the rigor of definition to the glib gesturing
      towards 'usual' - by which you mean, 'custom;' the humbling of
      writing beneath a speech dreaming its plenitude; such are the
      gestures required by an onto-theology determining the
      archaeological and eschatological meaning of being as presence, as
      parousia, as life without difference: another name for death,
      historical metonymy where God's name holds death in check. That is
      why, if this movement begins its era in the form of Platonism, it
      ends in infinitist metaphysics. If we follow your feeble logic
      where it will, there is no end to our questioning - we'll never
      really communicate, since we'll never know what a word truly
      means." He gestured with an immense spear at the sky, as though
      waving the needle point at the futility of language.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Roonwit, you are speaking in deliberately difficult language,
      and that is why you are not really communicating," said Cloudbirth,
      who was standing nearby. He clopped over, flanks shining in the sun
      overhead. "Just speak clearly, and trust that you will make your
      point. Don't try to hide in jargon like the Fontainebleau."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pip nodded gratefully at Cloudbirth, but the centaur wasn't
      done. Cloudbirth went on, and his dangerous, flashing eye cut off
      Pip before he could speak, "The same principle holds, you know, for
      more everyday matters. Even in social life, you will never make a
      good impression on other people until you stop thinking about what
      sort of impression you are making. Even in literature and art, no
      man who bothers about originality will ever be original whereas if
      you simply try to tell the truth you will, nine times out of ten,
      become original without ever having noticed it. The principle runs
      through all life from top to bottom: Give up yourself, and you will
      find your real self."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is there anyone else I can speak to, sir?" Pip asked,
      politely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Elder Glenstorm!" called Roonwit, gesturing across the clearing
      at a centaur who was standing next to one of the rough bark shacks
      that were the only buildings at the Salor Sprig. The named centaur
      looked up from his book, startled, and put it carefully on a shelf
      within one of the shacks, and trotted over. He took a wide berth
      around the center of the grassy clearing, where the sacred sapling
      grew.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Afternoon," Glenstorm said. He was a blue roan, with broad
      sides of a dusty grey. A longbow was slung across his human torso,
      and a quiver of arrows swung along his equine shoulder, kept from
      abrading with an oilcloth. "Are you two foals harassing this young
      human?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Elder Glenstorm has a smooth mouth, and much experience
      speaking with humans," said Cloudbirth, kindly. "We learn to think
      first, and it is only with time that we develop concision."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank y-" began Pip, but Cloudbirth wasn't finished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We do our best, of course," continued Cloudbirth, "but some of
      the humans from your Ministry have given very unbalanced accounts
      of our aim, as though the wine which is the reward of all our
      labors was the anguish and bewilderment of a human. We merely
      follow a general rule: in all activities of mind which favor our
      cause of wisdom, encourage oneself to be un-selfconscious and to
      concentrate on that object, but in all other activities bend the
      mind back on itself and fix the attention inward. It is the best
      way to restrain our native temperaments."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Enough, enough," murmured Glenstorm. Cloudbirth frowned and
      thumped the ground. The elder centaur turned to Pip. "It is unwise
      to come to the Salor Sprig without good cause, auror. Matters
      between our peoples have much improved, of late, but cross half a
      distance and half yet remains."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Oh, Merlin.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would like to post these two announcements. One is from the
      Ministry, and one is from the Tower," Pip said, remaining as calm
      as he was able. "I don't think either of them affect your people
      very much."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We will be the judge of that," said Glenstorm, curtly. At least
      he was brief. Pip handed the sheaf of parchment up to the elder
      centaur, happy to be rid of his charge and eager to be gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, well," Pip said, backing up, "Please do." One never really
      recognized just how ruddy big a horse-man could be until you were
      standing uncomfortably in the middle of three of them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"More to do with wizard kin than the people," Glenstorm said to
      Roonwit, after scanning the sheaf of parchment. "The auror is quite
      right. I will speak to the other elders about this, but I see
      nothing to intrude upon us, here. We will be able to keep our hands
      clean. Firenze is wrong, again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Roonwit hefted his spear in one hand and transferred it to the
      other, as if impatient with it. Pip wasn't exactly sure if Roonwit
      was a posted guard here, or just carrying the spear for protection
      or a ceremony or… some other unknowable mysterious centaur purpose.
      They were proper weird. They were an exceedingly private and
      outrageously proud people, only sending out rare emissaries to
      wizardkind when they felt forced to do so. Not a single one had
      consented to be rejuvenated or even healed by the Tower, despite
      the Salor Sprig's Safety Pole.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pip's Head of House back in school, Severus Snape, had once
      spoken of centaurs in the common room, when a plot was being
      hatched to get rid of Professor Trelawney (who was widely believed
      to favor Gryffindor students). She was high-strung, and three
      enterprising Slytherins had plotted to start leaving her notes in
      her own handwriting (as best they could manage it) informing her
      that she'd been Obliviated, and telling her about all sorts of
      terrible things that she'd witnessed important people doing. Snape
      had discovered the plot, and while he approved of this plan in
      terms of conception and cleverness (not that he could ever have
      actually countenanced such actions against a fellow professor) he
      had been merciless in mocking their next step: to invite a centaur
      to teach in Trelawney's place, once she'd been stuffed into St.
      Mungo's. Pip was unclear on the purpose of that replacement, but he
      thought it had been rooted in a basic assumption that the centaur
      would fail so badly they'd just eliminate Divination
      altogether.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape had said that centaurs were monstrously jealous of their
      privacy: they spent their lives in pursuit of philosophy,
      divination, and medicine - three practices that inherently involved
      interacting with strangers - and yet still worked tirelessly to
      isolate themselves from the unwashed masses. Any centaur who
      deigned to accept a teaching assignment at Hogwarts would be beaten
      and cast out from his people. "No member of that race," Snape had
      sneered, "would pay a permanent price for a temporary position.
      They are self-involved, not outright imbecilic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pip sometimes thought that the Sorting Hat had been wrong,
      putting him in Slytherin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Roonwit spoke again, gruffly. "My apologies to you, auror, if I
      was too obscure. The pursuit of meaning is an important one, but I
      have been perhaps too-long devoted to the contemplation of
      signifier and signified. It is a matter of great importance to me…
      it is immortality."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Metaphorically, you mean," replied Cloudbirth. "Such a conceit
      can't give any real guidance to action… What is the good of telling
      the ships how to steer so as to avoid collisions if, in fact, they
      are such crazy old tubs that they cannot be steered at all?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not at all! True immortality… and it is inherent in every
      sign!" said Roonwit. "Every sign, linguistic or nonlinguistic,
      spoken or written, as a small or large unity, can be cited, put
      between quotation marks; thereby it can break with every given
      context, and engender infinitely new contexts in an absolutely
      nonsaturable fashion. This does not suppose that the mark is valid
      outside its context, but on the contrary that there are only
      contexts without any center of absolute anchoring. This
      citationality, duplication, or duplicity, this iterability of the
      mark is not an accident or anomaly, but is that normal or abnormal
      without which a mark could no longer even have a so-called 'normal'
      functioning. What would a mark be that one could not cite? And
      whose origin could not be lost on the way? It would be an immortal
      sign, alive because an end cannot approach that which does not have
      a beginning."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pip must have been revealing too much on his face - or maybe
      Glenstorm really was just more thoughtful than the other centaurs -
      because the elder centaur waved him on, signaling that he could
      leave.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was starting to understand why he had the full sweep of
      messenger duty today, and not a more experienced auror. The goblins
      were strange, but fine. He'd be happy to keep going back to Curd
      and Ackle, like he had before. Even the Nutcombe Society was only
      unnerving and dangerous.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But this…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Whoever regularly brought messages to the Salor Sprig deserved a
      promotion and a crate of firewhiskey.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">April 7th, 1999</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">7:28 p.m.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The Receiving Room, Hogwarts, Scotland</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Pip got back to the Tower after his <em class="calibre7">very</em> long day
      (fourteen different places!), people were arriving in the Receiving
      Room at the rate of seven or eight people a minute, and all the
      receiving aurors looked ragged. The foreigners looked worst of all
      - Pip supposed that they had fewer people on their team to relieve
      them, but were still expected to put in their fair share.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The elderly and injured and diseased appeared, spinning in from
      a sideways that was always orthogonal to the viewer, and coming to
      a rest softly. Usually, they still glowed a faint red from the
      stunning effect of the trip. As they arrived, one of the aurors
      would examine them for a second, and then a pair would get to work
      scanning and dispelling. After years of practice - including other
      mad days like today - most of the sizeable contingent of receiving
      aurors were old hands at the work, and patients were either wheeled
      in through the golden entrance to the Tower or moved into an
      adjacent room for other assistance or questioning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The on-site workers at the Safety Poles usually did a decent job
      of triage, and kept back those who didn't actually need the Tower's
      assistance, but those facilities - some of which were growing to be
      full-fledged hospitals to rival St. Mungo's, squatting protectively
      around their individual Safety Poles - weren't perfect. And almost
      a third of all visitors traveled via Safety Stick instead, directly
      from their homes or work. Some of them were only panicking, some of
      them only needed first aid, and many had just made a mistake with
      the Safety Stick. A surprising number of children thought "running
      safety" was just a lark.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On a day like today, with Muggles and Squibs arriving… well, who
      knew how many things had gone wrong today? Pip knew that the
      Obliviator Squad had been expanded and was scheduled to work around
      the clock for the next two weeks, until they'd worked out all the
      kinks in the system. Even everyone in the Magical Law Enforcement
      Patrol had been scheduled for extra shifts, filling in for aurors
      as guards at Howard. It was incredibly hectic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Auror Kwannon saw Pip arrive. She looked exhausted, her almond
      eyes heavy-lidded and face drawn. She was probably on her second or
      third straight shift, he thought, and brimming with tea to keep her
      sharp.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you want me to spell you for a bit, Hedley?" he asked her,
      stepping over a merwoman as another auror put a poultice of
      sullyflower to the being's gills, so the stunned creature could
      breathe. There were several people in odd Muggle clothes on gurneys
      nearby - Muggles or Squibs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Kwannon shook her head. "Go report to Kraeme. I'm fine." She
      paused. "Wait, this just came in," she said, pulling a sealed
      parchment from her belt. "You'll save me a trip… give it to the
      Tower."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some people were made of bloody iron, Pip reflected. He nodded
      respectfully, taking the parchment, and walked through the golden
      portal into the Tower, moving briskly through the Thieves'
      Downfall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Britain, Italy, Germany, Norden, France, the Free States,
      Nigeria, and half a dozen more states… their dying and desperately
      diseased streamed into the Tower all around Pip. He was back in the
      beating heart of the world once more. His chest swelled with pride,
      though he knew that was silly. He was just a small part of it. But
      to be here, now… being sent personally on missions for the
      Tower!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The clinic was bursting, Pip could see from his brief glance
      inside. Temporary bunks had been set up along the walls to
      accommodate those patients who had been healed and were just
      waiting on their dismissal, each one tagged with labels indicating
      time and healer. The special ward had been reclaimed for general
      use - apparently lycanthropes and vampires were being asked to come
      in another day. The discharge ward was a madhouse, as the
      Obliviators had set up shop in one corner and were carefully
      keeping tabs on all the Muggles, double-checking with the
      arithmancers on duty throughout the Tower to make sure no one fell
      through the cracks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pip headed down the corridors away from the hellacious racket,
      past the Conjuration Conjunction, the Extension Establishment, and
      Material Methods. J.C. wasn't in the meeting room, so he went down
      another corridor to Pairing Partnership. That was where the Tower
      had been spending a lot of time over the past few weeks, and J.C.
      Kraeme was probably with him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"J.C.?" he asked, as he entered the Pairing Partnership. The
      Lovegood Leaf rustled as he opened and closed the door. There was a
      hum and a whirring in the room, which was filled with all sorts of
      esoteric Muggle equipment, but it wasn't very loud, and J.C.
      noticed him immediately. She was standing next to the Tower, who
      was on a computer (as usual). Luna Lovegood and Dolores Umbridge
      were also present, fiddling with odd objects.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Pip approached Mr. Potter and J.C., he glanced at the screen,
      but the glowing text was written in a kind of code to hide its
      meaning:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">else if(state==ENDQUOTE) {</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">state=QUOTE;</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">eeg_data[j][k++] = csv_line[i];</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pirrip. Any problems today?" J.C. asked, her voice sharp. Her
      mess of black curls didn't hide the grim intensity of her scrutiny.
      She was one of the old breed, like Kwannon… before the ranks of the
      aurors doubled in 1996. Mr. Potter didn't look up - he just kept
      manipulating the computer's keys. He was wearing Muggle clothing -
      a brown suit. Very handsome, even with the ponytail.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not a one," Pip said, brightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mr. Potter leaned back in his seat, and swiveled to face Pip.
      "What did the centaurs have to say?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wasn't sure about most of it, sir. A lot of arguing over how
      things were said. But there was an elder there who could talk
      straight, and he was just happy that the new Tower rules for
      rejuvenation weren't going to 'intrude' on them," Pip said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mr. Potter smiled coldly. "Ah, yes. They keep their hands off of
      me and mine as much as they can. They don't want to be involved,
      since they fear some sort of moral Anns test. In their minds,
      they're not morally culpable for outcomes, as long as they remain
      uninvolved. An odd sort of moral calculus, but that's one of the
      flaws of deontology."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Oh, good, this again. At least I'm used to</em> him
      <em class="calibre7">saying impenetrable things.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They get what they deserve, though… nasty creatures are
      sentencing themselves to their own punishment," said Miss Umbridge.
      It was odd to see her, here… one of the only middle-aged people who
      worked in the Tower or with the Unspeakables who hadn't been
      rejuvenated. She was plump and shiny and unpleasant, wearing a
      fluffy pink cardigan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's probably a better explanation," Miss Lovegood said. The
      blonde witch had an odd-looking bonnet in her hands. "Blibbering
      Humdingers, rampant gum disease, a sustained private propaganda
      campaign… could be anything." She paused. "Although the last one of
      those is most likely."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What on earth is a Blibbering Humdinger?" asked Miss Umbridge,
      with a sweetness that covered her contempt with a thin layer of
      syrupy falseness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a dreadful Dark creature that infects you when you're
      young," Miss Lovegood replied, turning back to the Muggle-made
      bonnet in her hands and fixing a metal wire into it. She sounded
      vague and airy. "It can control your behavior. Its life-cycle
      involves small animals, and so when the Humdinger takes over, it
      makes you unbearable to be around for other people. So you spend
      your time around small animals, instead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Miss Umbridge snorted derisively and shook her head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You haven't been rejuvenated, though, Dolores," said Mr.
      Potter, swiveling his chair to face her, now. He was grinning at
      what Miss Lovegood had said. "Aren't you sentencing yourself to the
      same fate as the centaurs, eventually?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," Miss Umbridge said, pursing her lips. "I just haven't
      done it <em class="calibre7">yet</em>. I'm quite young and in vigorous health. And
      I'm not entirely sure about the whole thing, anyway. I don't think
      it's been thought through…" She paused, nervously. "That is to say,
      I'm just waiting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have proven to be invaluable, Dolores, so please don't wait
      forever. You remind me of a certain journal editor I once knew,
      although you are less particular about the color of ink." Mr.
      Potter said, and smiled affectionately. He turned to Pip. "Mr.
      Pirrip - sorry, do you mind if I call you 'Pip?' "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pip felt such a warm glow of pride that it threatened to stifle
      him, but he managed to say, "Please do, sir."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pip, have you heard anyone talking about the 'Three' today? Or
      about new and powerful magic they've seen? A new sort of Dark Mark,
      that wipes memories? You get along very well with everyone, and
      people talk around you… did you hear anything like that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The 'Three,' sir?" Pip scratched his head. "I'm not sure… you
      mean the Shichinin?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, not Neville and the twins," Harry said, shaking his head.
      He grinned again. "Although that would be a particularly terrifying
      possibility. Just keep your ears open, will you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pip nodded, puzzled. "Yes, sir." He started, remembering. "Oh,
      sir, Auror Kraeme gave me this for you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">J.C. scowled ferociously at Pip as he handed over the sealed
      parchment. The Tower took it and broke the seal, scanning the
      contents rapidly. "Cappadocia and the Sawad appear to be in secret
      negotiations over a treaty," he mused. "It'll be in the
      <em class="calibre7">Prophet</em> tomorrow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Miss Lovegood looked up, surprise wiping away her dreamy
      expression. "They're joining the Treaty! That's wonderful, Harry!
      And… surprising!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A Treaty of Independence," said Mr. Potter. "With the Malfoys'
      organization. They're enlisting with the Honourable." He handed the
      missive to Miss Lovegood, and Miss Umbridge crowded next to her to
      read it, as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What does this mean, sir?" asked Pip. He felt a small twinge of
      fear in his guts, but it was overwhelmed by awe and joy at his
      place in things.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not sure," said the Tower, and fell silent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was by far the scariest thing Pip had seen all day.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">NOTE: This is the end of Arc 1 of "Significant Digits." The
      next chapter will go up in two weeks. It will be a flashback
      chapter, prior to the start of Arc 2.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">It will be called "Azkaban."</em></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
