<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>46. Significant Digits - Significant Digits Chapter 17: Brute Existent, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="46. Significant Digits"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s17" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 17: Brute Existent</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Wiglaf maðelode, Wihstanes sunu:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oft sceall eorl monig anes willan</p>
      <p class="calibre6">wræc adreogan, swa us geworden is.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ne meahton we gelæran leofne þeoden,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">rices hyrde, ræd ænigne,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">þæt he ne grette gold-weard þone,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">lete hyne licgean, þær he longe wæs,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">wicum wunian oð woruld-ende;</p>
      <p class="calibre6">heold on heah gesceap.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wiglad, son of Weohstan, spoke:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Often when one man follows his own will</p>
      <p class="calibre6">many are hurt. This happened to us.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing we advised could ever convince</p>
      <p class="calibre6">the prince we loved, our land's guardian,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">not to vex the custodian of the gold,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">let him lie where he was long accustomed,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">lurk there under earth until the end of the world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He held to his high destiny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Beowulf</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">From the desk of the Tower Clinic Ombudsman:</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">To Whom It May Concern:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I would like to register an official complaint regarding the
      behavior of Owen Wilifred, a healer in your employ whom I had the
      <span>misfortune</span> to encounter this past October. I raise
      bicorn for a living, and do it better than anyone else in the
      Hollow. Even the Jugsons bought extract from me exclusively, and I
      daresay their Polyjuice and Waggum Potions lasted a fair bit longer
      than they'd have done if they'd bought off of old Weatherbee. But
      when I was a younger man, I was stabbed through the hand by one of
      the beasts. St. Mungo's mucked up the healing charm, and it's ached
      every winter since. So I was pleased to hear about the rejuvenation
      up at the Tower that the Boy-Who-Lived was offering.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I went to the Godric's Hollow Safety Pole and had myself checked
      out by the folks there, and then touched the thing and winked right
      out. Next thing I know, I'm on a bed and this
      <span>squirrely-looking bloke</span> is sitting there and
      <span>watching</span> me. He and another fellow ask me a whole mess
      of queer questions and put me through my paces on my history, and
      then they start poking me. I had brought a portrait of mine that's
      very well-done, good light and a good movement on it, but they
      <span>barely glanced</span> at it. They just babbled some nonsense.
      I checked my pockets before I went in, and it's a good thing,
      because I found a Galleon on the floor under me, that they'd
      arranged to have fall there so they could get it later. I wasn't
      born yesterday, nor the day before, and I know how to run a proper
      swindle. I wouldn't have <span>minded</span> paying, which is why I
      brought the money, but I can't stand a swindle. This Wilifred (I
      got his name before I left) wouldn't knock off the trick he was
      talking about… this whole German swindle of "the beat ease." He
      made me sit while he put his wand to my chest and did not do a
      bloody thing! I am <span>no fool</span>, and I know well enough
      that I'm not as hale as a young man. But slowing down a bit and
      getting glasses is normal, and I've always been a bit thin. It was
      the <span>insult</span> I resent! Mr. Wilifred didn't <span>proper
      respect me</span>, and I haven't spent fifty years building up the
      best bicorn in Britain just for some young swindler to try to pull
      the wool over my eyes. He was softening me up and would've asked
      for the deed to me house in return if he hadn't seen I wasn't going
      for it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I got my Galleon back, shook Mr. Potter's hand, and got out of
      there. And never you mind the money, and I am sure full grateful
      about the hand, which is much better. Having that pain away has
      quickened my step, I'll tell you. But I would like to complain
      <span>in full</span> about Mr. Wilifred, who you should sack right
      away. <span>The lad is a swindler</span>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sincerely,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">J. Ymir Ytterbar</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ytterbar's Bicorn</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">If the Tower has done the world any favors, it might be in
      uniting so many against him. By attempting to remake everything in
      his own cruel image, Harry Potter has made allies of enemies and
      friends of foes. And what is more, he has done this throughout the
      whole world. The ranks of those who sympathize with the global
      resistance to his tyranny - a group that is now known as the
      "Honourable," I admit with a blush - come from every walk of
      life.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">In Britain, those who defended the traditional rule of noble
      houses are joined with those who advocated for Muggle-style elected
      houses… for neither party could accept a brash new boy-dictator,
      whose claim to power lies only in force.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">In the Orient, those who have railed against the traditional
      British leadership in the Confederation are joined with those
      sought closer alliance with it, since the strength of British
      dominance in that body is irrelevant if the dominance is founded on
      intimidation and bloodshed.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">In the Americas, the outright violence done by Harry Potter
      with a Muggle weapon in an attack on an old institution - an attack
      falsely done in my name, though no one can name why I would do
      this! - will bring together Americans of every stripe, rebelling
      against their Imperiused leadership.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Unless someone stops the Tower, then he will soon rule the
      whole world, crushing it in the grip of the porcelain automatons
      that replace those poor victims who go to be "rejuvenated."
      Independence should be no threat to anyone… anyone who does not
      plan to rule the world as its master, that is.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Excerpt from "Needful Allies," by Draco Malfoy</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Unbreakable Honour</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Vol 4 (1999), Issue 10</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Everyone's here, so I think we can get started," said Harry, as
      Diggory briskly walked in, a manila folder in hand. Auror Kwannon
      followed him, a stack of parchments in her arms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Chief Auror and Head of the DMLE, who was late, smiled and
      shrugged as he sat down at the meeting table. "Sorry, everyone.
      Emergencies today… two attempts on the Unspeakables, yesterday and
      today. Someone tried to Imperius Geraldine, and we discovered an
      outstanding theft from the vaults. Anyone have a copy of the
      agenda?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, and slid a parchment over to him. "I can help you
      on the theft, I think… but we'll get to that one later."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had found that it was important to have an agenda and
      stick to it - no chit-chat or the like - otherwise these meetings
      sprawled out of control, and nothing got done. A high-level meeting
      was seldom the best place for open discussion or brainstorming
      solutions; they were for sharing information and making
      decisions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Administrative skills were a bigger part of his life than he'd
      ever thought they would be. He had four regular meetings a week - a
      faculty meeting with the Tower School of Doubt, a meeting with the
      heads of research (not <em class="calibre7">all</em> of them… the twenty-five
      departments were consolidated into four different groups), a
      meeting with the Tower clinic healers and aurors (technically it
      was the John Snow Center for Medicine, but not even Harry used that
      name at this point), and this one: the meeting with Magical
      Britain's Powers That Be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And none of those even touched his other ventures, such as
      managing his money and charities (his current assets were now
      equivalent to that of a small country, quite literally), or
      teaching, or other pet projects. And the time he didn't spend doing
      <em class="calibre7">that</em> he was spending with Hermione or the Shichinin or
      Moody.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For someone who'd spent most of their boyhood in a relatively
      solitary and frustrated existence, he'd somehow transformed into a
      man who spent most of his life <em class="calibre7">managing</em> people. It would
      be so much easier if they would just do what he said… he could do
      ten times as much if he didn't have to argue… so many more people
      could be saved...</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">That's a Voldemort thought</em>, he considered.
      <em class="calibre7">Short-sighted and stupid.</em> <em class="calibre7">Whatever benefits in
      efficiency and speed I might gain, I would lose the benefit of
      other people's ideas and opinions if began to</em> command
      <em class="calibre7">rather than</em> manage<em class="calibre7">… and the entire point of our
      increasing democratic reforms, with the Tribunes and so on, is to
      employ the wisdom of crowds while providing more opportunities for
      outliers in achievement to rise in station. And if you're going to
      build a merit-based democracy, you'd better start at home.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked around the table. Cedric Diggory and Hedley Kwannon
      for the DMLE, Amelia Bones for the Wizengamot and Confederation,
      Percy Weasley for the Ministry, Simon Smith for the Returned (since
      Hermione was busy), Haddad and Podrut for the goblins (and a
      general outsider perspective), and Mafalda Hopkirk for the
      Unspeakables. They'd need to get someone from the Council over
      here, soon, to speak for Hig.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Percy, would you start us off?" Harry said, glancing at the
      serious-looked redhead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Weasley cleared his throat and glanced down at the parchment in
      front of him before beginning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We've gotten a few of the integration facilities in operation
      already. The logistics weren't very difficult, thanks to the help
      of some people from the Obliviator squads. They have a lot of
      experience in sanitizing contact between the two worlds." He
      glanced down at the parchment in front of him. "I promoted Klaus
      Gage to head of one of the squads, based on his performance. I
      think it might make sense to have that squad start to specialize in
      deliberate contact, like these facilities." Weasley looked up at
      Harry again, questioningly. "Since I assume we'll be scaling this
      up in the future…?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Yes. Make a note, though… we need a better name
      for the program. 'Integration facility' makes us sound like we're…
      I don't know, Morlocks or something. These are restaurants and
      movie theatres." His hair was loose, and he pushed it back behind
      his ears absent-mindedly as he spoke.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Music should be the next, I think, Mr. Weasley" said Mafalda
      Hopkirk, and the Senior Undersecretary nodded respectfully. The
      Venerable Unspeakable looked to be a voluptuous twenty years old,
      but still managed an air of authority when she spoke. It must be an
      acquired skill or habit, Harry reflected, since - according to most
      standards - her appearance no longer matched her gravitas. Ample
      <em class="calibre7">décolletage,</em> blonde hair, and blue eyes… but when she
      snapped at her subordinates, they jumped to obey like she was
      Merwyn the Malicious. It would probably be too much to hope that
      basic expectations had actually changed… that the society of
      Magical Britain had really begun to adjust to rejuvenation in a
      fundamental way. That would come in time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For right now, both restaurants and the theatre are losing
      money, hand over fist. Only moderate patronage, but high costs for
      wages, security, and so on. But we expected that." Weasley glanced
      at his notes again. "Oh, yes, one thing that should help is that
      Sylvia de Kamp just did a feature on Siegfried's for <em class="calibre7">American
      Mage</em>, and <em class="calibre7">The Daily Prophet</em> will be carrying it, as
      well. Apparently she was astonished, and she spends a thousand
      words in rapture over her 'adventurous Muggle dining experience.'
      "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I went there," Chief Goldsmith Haddad said. "Had some beef.
      Quite tasty, I must say." Everyone at the table generally
      understood that this was both explicit approval of the restaurant
      and implicit approval of its inclusive policies towards potential
      patrons. Veauregard's Victuals, the leading fine dining
      establishment in Diagon Alley, did not permit goblins or any other
      Beings on the premises (except for the house elves that prepared
      the food).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones said nothing, but her lips grew tight. That discomfort
      wasn't unexpected, after having spent so much time with her.
      <em class="calibre7">Even people we like and admire are products of their
      environment. It doesn't matter if she particularly likes the idea,
      as long as she intellectually accepts and agrees not to oppose the
      mingling of wizards and Beings. Many people have racist
      grandparents, but that doesn't make the grandparents bad people
      unless they're actively doing racist things - at least when we're
      speaking about "bad" and "good" in terms of preference
      utilitarianism. Having irrational or evil instincts or subconscious
      beliefs doesn't make you irrational or evil, if you don't act on
      them.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">In fact</em>, he considered<em class="calibre7">, her beliefs might make
      Amelia a particularly</em> good <em class="calibre7">person. She's uncomfortable
      with some of the more personal aspects of this equality movement,
      like the idea of her niece dining at the same table as a goblin, or
      bringing them into the government and working with them so closely,
      but she overrules her baser instinct and does the right thing
      anyway. She might always be awkward around Haddad, Podrut, Urg, or
      the others, but she's being as good as she can be.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Moving on," said Weasley, "I am unhappy to report that an envoy
      from the Strategos of Cappadocia paid me a visit last week,
      demanding I put him on the schedule for Minister N'Goma. I obliged,
      of course, but discussed the purpose of his visit a bit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Simon Smith, a fleshy Scot and one of Hermione's Returned,
      leaned forward and rested his elbows on the table. He looked evenly
      at Weasley with flat brown eyes, emotional but somehow hollow, and
      said evenly, "Nikitas Seyhan."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course it's bloody well Nikitas Seyhan," snapped Bones at
      the same time Weasley, more mildly, said "Yes, that's-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a brief pause as each waited for the other to
      continue. Bones crossed her arms and only frowned. With her tight
      brown bun, it made her look severe. Weasley continued, his mouth
      twisting slightly in amusement at her outburst.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, the Seyhan fellow. He broke the Statute of Secrecy, they
      claim, and they're arguing that we're in violation of the Statute
      if we don't return him home, to be punished in accordance with
      Clauses 74, 75, and 76."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't know the International Statute of Wizarding Secrecy
      in detail; he glanced at Bones and Haddad in succession to invite
      their interpretation. Bones had decades of experience in its
      international application, and Haddad was a trained lawyer with
      almost as much knowledge of how the Confederation acted to enforce
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They glanced at each other, and Haddad spoke up. He tapped a
      finger thoughtfully on the table. "Probably a good case for it.
      You're - we're - sheltering Seyhan, and his sentence wasn't
      finished. It is a way for the Independents to attack under cover of
      law. I suppose that Germany or Norden could have made the same
      complaints at any time, but… well, Cappadocia was the first overtly
      disagreeable place that the Returned have struck."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Surely we have the votes to simply ignore them… Madame Bones?"
      said Diggory. "Could we win an arbitration vote in the
      Confederation?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Easily," said Bones. "But it would cost us in public
      perception… particularly in the Ten Thousand. The Westphalians will
      use it against us to demand even more concessions. And it might
      complicate matters with Kenya… after the Free States and Nigeria
      joined the Treaty for Health and Life, Kenya opened up a dialogue
      on the quiet with one of our Confederation delegates, looking for,
      ah, 'considerations.' But major controversy or the appearance of
      lawlessness might drive them away. They wouldn't join the
      Independents, I don't think, but… well, it would be a setback."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Treaty of Independence was still limited in its scope to a
      handful of states, fortunately: Cappadocia, Caucasus, most of the
      Sawad, and Russia. It was an idea borrowed from Muggle politics -
      actually, borrowed from Harry himself, in terms of the Cold
      War.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the early days, when Draco had been working on planning for
      the future with Harry and Hermione, Harry had once floated the idea
      of including a mutual-defense pact in the Treaty for Health and
      Life - a way to dramatically raise the stakes in case of potential
      conflict. Now the Honourable were using it to set a tone of heroic
      defiance and to unite opposition to the Health and Life programmes.
      It had given the Council of Westphalia - or their puppets in the
      American governments, anyway - even more leverage in the ongoing
      negotiations, since it provided a viable alternative to what might
      otherwise seem an inevitable eventual outcome.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Seyhan is at Powis?" Harry asked Simon. The Returned nodded.
      "How would Hermione feel about returning him to Cappadocia, if
      necessary? Their Dementors are gone… he would presumably be going
      into their normal prison."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If he chooses to go, he may. But we won't return him against
      his will." Simon said. He didn't emphasize his words or raise his
      voice. This was an old problem that had started the moment Azkaban
      fell: Hermione believed the Dementation was punishment enough for
      any conceivable crime, and had unilaterally declared that those who
      had come back from that hell would always have a place with
      her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It wasn't that Harry disagreed about Azkaban or the Dementors,
      of course: they had been vile beyond words, and no one - literally
      <em class="calibre7">no one</em> - deserved to be tortured to death in that way.
      He'd agreed unhesitatingly to her declaration. The ones she'd
      personally rescued had mostly been institutionalized, except for
      Odette Charlevoix, and many of those who had been transferred to
      Britain's remaining prison, the Howard House of Reform, had simply
      served out their relatively short sentences and had gone free
      without controversy. Others, though… well, Simon himself, for
      example, was a convicted murderer… but once he'd regained enough
      sanity to function, he'd walked free, and joined the newly-formed
      Returned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the months afterward, they'd taken a beating in public
      opinion for freeing so many criminals. Some people, like Walden
      Macnair, had been apparent successes - Macnair lived a quiet life
      enchanting broomsticks, now - but others had returned to fraud,
      robbery… or worse activities.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a time, Harry had proposed new trials and mundane prisons
      for people like Charlevoix and Simon. Hermione had flatly rejected
      it, even after Harry pointed out that every month that this cost
      them in advancing their plans, politically, was another month
      during which people would die.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It would save lives," Harry said. "It's cold, I know, but if
      giving Seyhan back to Cappadocia would improve our image with Kenya
      and the Ten Thousands, and speed things up with the American
      states, that's… hundreds of lives." He did some rough calculations
      in his head. Seventy thousand wizards or so in the United States…
      death rate in magical societies in the developed world was usually
      about four deaths a day for every thousand people... "In the United
      States alone, something like… three hundred wizards die every day.
      Every day matters."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Every person matters," Simon replied. But he wasn't really
      arguing, since he would never countermand Hermione. Like the rest
      of the Returned, he would have cut off his hands if she'd told him
      to. Harry would have to wait to speak to her directly, if he wanted
      to change her mind. Not that it would do much good.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Imagine if you had to choose between someone being tortured
      for fifty years," Harry said to Hermione. "Or a billion people
      getting a dust speck in their eye for a second, irritating them for
      an instant. No, not a billion… a googol people getting a dust
      speck. That's-"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Ten with a hundred zeroes after it," Hermione interrupted.
      "And you want me to choose which of those would be the better
      outcome?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Yes. You have to weigh the aggregate discomfort of so many
      against the torture of one. If a googol isn't enough, make it a
      googolplex… ten to the googol power people."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">There aren't a googolplex of atoms in the galaxy, I
      wouldn't think, much less a googolplex of people," Hermione said,
      thoughtfully.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Yes, but it's a number so big that it makes us confront our
      scope insensitivity. You don't picture an individual or even a
      crowd… you think about the numbers rationally, instead. A
      staggering amount of minute pains outweighs the suffering of any
      one person."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Careful, Harry. You could justify a lot with that
      reasoning. And the answer is no. Charlevoix is going back to
      France, to visit her children. They want to see her, and she's
      going to try to find some connection to them… maybe recover some
      memories of them, if possible. She'll be meeting with people in
      their Ministry of Magic, too… might help with getting them to join
      the Treaty, someday."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">We could wait for her to come back. And it would be a fair
      trial."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">That will be her choice. She'll have a place with me,
      otherwise, until she chooses to go. She's paid any debt she might
      possibly owe the world… find another human sacrifice."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine," Harry said to Simon, sighing. "I'll revisit this with
      the lady herself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We should muddy the waters, so it doesn't seem clear-cut," said
      Bones. "Give us something to talk about for our own part, when they
      bring this up. The son of the Strategos of Cappadocia was accused
      of breaking the Statute about a decade ago, as I recall… maybe that
      will work well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sir? Sorry to interrupt," came a voice at the door. It was
      Auror Pip, pushing a hand truck. Standing upright on the truck and
      being wheeled along, frozen in place and stunned, was a thin-faced
      older man. Balding, but with great muttonchop whiskers. The man's
      face was frozen in a snarl, and his fingers were still curled
      around a now-absent wand, caught in the act of casting. There was a
      large bloodstain, still wet, on the man's thigh.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's Moody, yes," Harry said, smiling. "Good work."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pip grinned - <em class="calibre7">he'd</em> gotten Mad-Eye Moody! Most of the
      Tower aurors had already done so - J.C. had gotten him eight times,
      now - but this was his first Moody. He drew his wand and dispelled
      the Stunning Hex. Pip couldn't wait to tell his mum.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alastor "Mad-Eye" Moody's arms relaxed, and he worked his jaw
      experimentally for a moment. "Hell. This one got me?" His disguise
      - if a Transfigured body could be said to be a disguise - was a
      good one. He'd given Harry some pictures and instructions
      yesterday: this was another lycanthrope, but with space for a
      secret wand inside the thigh. A combination of prior attempts.
      Lycanthropes were still immune to the automatic stunning effect on
      the Safety Poles and Safety Sticks, so Moody had tried them for his
      intrusion attempts before, and he'd taken the Ultimate Ulna idea
      from Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, sir," said Pip, brightly. He smiled broadly and nodded to
      Harry, and left the room to return to his post.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, Alastor… Pip stunned you, this time," Bones said. The
      young-looking witch was working to keep a straight face. "My,
      my."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody shuffled over to a chair and sat in it, gingerly, as if
      his bones hurt. "Didn't put much planning into this one… just
      standard… keep them on their toes," he said, in a hoarse voice. He
      shot Diggory a purposeful glance when he opened his mouth to speak.
      The Chief Auror thought better of it… though he couldn't stop from
      smiling. Everyone sat politely for a moment longer, while Moody
      sorted himself out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well then, Mr. Moody," said Weasley. "We were just discussing
      the possibility of returning Nikitas Seyhan to Cappadocia, since
      they're making a bit of a fuss about it at the Confederation. Mr.
      Smith here, however, indicates that this won't be happening, so
      Madame Bones prop-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pfah," snorted Moody. "You're all as sharp as blind-worms. Me
      sitting here like this, and you're worried about having to hand
      over a fugitive?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled suddenly, and leaned forward. "But if he
      minds?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How long was he there?" Moody asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh! Yes!" said Bones, smiling as well. "Er… he was in Göreme
      for twelve years, I believe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then any happy associations he had are long gone," replied
      Moody, "so I doubt he'll protest… if he's even fit to protest about
      anything at all, after twelve years."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced around the table, noting some expressions of
      puzzlement and some smiles at the solution. He explained, "Moody is
      suggesting we simply change his face and say that we've lost track
      of him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or, better yet," said Diggory, "hand over a fake corpse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Optimates of the Eleusinian Mysteries once did that," said
      Haddad, in his accented English. "During the Social War… back when
      death dolls were undetectable. Wanted to keep the Muggles of the
      Latin provinces in check, and so they made a big show of parading
      some heroic wizard corpses all through the city. The actual
      wizards, still quite alive, attacked Paeligni. Didn't succeed -
      oppression seldom succeeds in the long run - but a clever
      trick."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned at the goblin, and Mafalda Hopkirk broke her
      silence to mutter, "Subtle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was an awkward pause.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anyway, let's get some sort of plan in place there. Moody,
      you'll handle it?" Harry said, glancing over at today's Moody. The
      balding lycanthrope nodded, looking irritable. "Whatever we do,"
      Harry continued, "I do think it's time to begin putting some
      distance between the Tower and the Returned."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Diggory nodded in approval. "You're anticipating more
      confrontation, and you want Ms. Granger to be able to act with a
      free hand." It was widely rumored that Cedric Diggory was
      infatuated with the Goddess, and had made several attempts to ask
      her out. Harry wondered if that might affect his judgment, but he
      still seemed to be thinking straight when it came to Hermione and
      the Returned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I think-" But Harry broke off what he was saying when
      Diggory and Kwannon, followed a second later by Moody and Smith,
      leapt out of their seats, springing to the two doors into the
      meeting room. Diggory and Kwannon went to one, while Moody and
      Smith went to the other. They'd slammed and secured and warded the
      doors in a matter of moments, and continued to cast wards as the
      other wizards and witches in the room - slower to react, and not
      privy to the signal that had alerted Diggory and Kwannon - joined
      them and began casting. Harry got out of his seat and drew his
      wand, but remained away from the doors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The spells were already thick within the Tower, and there was
      only so much more magical security that could be had, and so it was
      only a few minutes before the aurors, Smith, Bones, and Weasley
      were assuming battle positions, standing in spots staggered around
      the room, in a pattern designed to avoid most effective area
      spells. Diggory felt free to pull out his auror mirror, then, and
      bubble the guards on the inner door. He held the mirror so that
      most of the people in the room could see it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Kraeme, report."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Auror J.C. Kraeme's face appeared in the mirror. She looked
      calm. "Intrusion in the Receiving Room, sir. We've sealed the Tower
      entrance, and no attempt has been made on it. They're still
      fighting - we can hear it from here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Put the bubbler on a chair or something, J.C.," said Diggory.
      "Leave it open, so we know what's going on, but keep your eyes on
      that door."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The perspective of the bubbler - which looked like nothing so
      much as one of the small mirrored compacts that Muggles use for
      makeup - shifted and moved around, and finally settled at a level
      that looked waist-high to Auror Kraeme and Auror Pip, the entrance
      guards. It showed the entrance to the Tower, but the golden door
      had been completed obscured by a huge and heavy-looking silver
      plate, ornately decorated, that had been rolled into a frame in
      front of the entrance. Harry glanced over at Podrut, and smiled
      despite the tension to see the obvious pride on the goblin's face.
      He'd made the security hatch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone waited, tensely. Moody stood in a corner, his wand
      pointed towards one of the doors... and towards everyone else in
      the room ("I know a traitor will eliminate the biggest threats
      first, and you're the best avenue of attack," is how he had once
      explained it, after he and Harry had gone into lockdown earlier
      this month, during a similar alert, and Moody had spent the entire
      time with his wand pointed at Harry.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quiet out there, now," commented Pip, glancing back at the
      mirror. Kraeme quieted him with a harsh glance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They had to wait. Very few methods of communication were
      possible between the Tower and the outside world. It was a security
      precaution, but it made moments like this one particularly
      tense.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After another ten minutes or so, a pattern of knocks was audible
      on the silver plate. Kraeme nodded to Pip, who approached it, and
      knocked several times. There were two knocks in response, and Pip
      visibly brightened. "It's correct," he reported to the senior
      auror, and she grunted in affirmation and turned towards the mirror
      for orders. "Today's pattern, sir."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Open it up," replied Diggory. Pip nodded, and reached for the
      heavy latch that held the plate in place. Harry was going to agree
      and congratulate the two door guards on their caution, but found
      himself unable to say that - as though the words simply did not
      exist in English to express any such sentiment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait!" he choked out, instead. Pip's hand froze on the gleaming
      metal handle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned to Moody, who had his wand pointing at him. "Moody,
      how often are the knocks changed?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Every month," said Moody. "I <em class="calibre7">wanted</em> every week, but
      training has gotten lax, and they kept mucking it up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">True</em>, thought Harry, remembering. <em class="calibre7">Cedric had
      complained that the Tower security was so redundant and required so
      many different, frequently-changing protocols, that they were
      spending entire days each month sorting through false positives.
      Security protocols were an investment like anything else, and there
      were diminishing returns. The fact that there seemed to be some
      sort of problem - since Harry's Unbreakable Vow wouldn't let him
      agree to opening the door - didn't necessarily prove Cedric wrong,
      either. After all, Moody still hadn't been able to get inside, and
      he'd been very motivated to embarrass Cedric and prove his
      point.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And was it changed after the lockdown earlier this month - that
      time when you spent twenty minutes menacing me?" asked Harry,
      raising his eyebrows. He pulled a stretchy hair-tie from one pocket
      as he spoke, and put his hair in a ponytail.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," said Diggory, heavily, looking embarrassed. Auror Kwannon,
      standing near the door with him, looked pale.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody had a fierce look of triumph on his muttonchopp-whiskered
      face. "And here you were, all excited about Pip stunning me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not now, Alastor," snapped Bones. Her attention was still fixed
      on the bubbler.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sir?" asked Auror Kraeme.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just a moment, J.C. I'll send my Patronus." Diggory replied.
      "<em class="calibre7">Expecto Patronum!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A silvery bat flapped into existence, shedding argent light on
      the tense faces within the meeting room. "Go and speak to Harry
      Madagascar in the Receiving Room, and ask him what is going
      on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was another long minute, then the bat swung back into the
      room, and spoke in the high-pitched voice of Auror Herrera, "We
      gave the correct knock, Mr. Diggory, I'm sure of it. The situation
      is under control."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bear back the words, 'Monkey monkey monkey,' " said Diggory to
      his Patronus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I like bananas, dress me like a doll," replied Herrera, after
      the glowing bat had made the trip and returned. It was the correct
      response.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Diggory looked to Harry, who nodded in approval, then he turned
      to the bubbler. "Open it up, Pirrip." There was still a risk, given
      the mistake in operational security this month, but the Thief's
      Downfall before the Tower entrance and the exceptional magical
      defenses of the facility were more than enough of a margin of
      safety.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone relaxed a little, only to tense up again in a moment,
      as another sharp report came through the bubbler.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There are prisoners!" shouted Kraeme. "And they're
      <em class="calibre7">students</em>!"</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
