<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>46. Significant Digits - Significant Digits Chapter 21: Bonus: Shichinin, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="46. Significant Digits"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s21" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 21: Bonus: Shichinin</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">April 15th, 1999</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Luuq, Somalia</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Drop your guns!" shouted Neville, leaping through the
      window.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Guns are stupid!" shouted Fred, leaping in next to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your mother is a hamster and something something elderberries!"
      shouted George, leaping in at Neville's other side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not even close to being right, George!
      <em class="calibre7">Extinctus!</em>" said Neville, as he swept his wand across to
      one of the eight soldiers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The soldiers were tough: hardened Ogaden warriors who had been
      fighting for years. It would be hard to say what their cause really
      was: independence for their clans; the unity of the Ogaden regions
      in Somalia and Ethiopia; or personal power. But whatever the cause,
      they had spent most of their recent time intimidating, beating, or
      shooting the residents of local villages. They were hard men, and
      used to violence. And so while they were surprised when white men
      in black dresses jumped through the window and began waving sticks,
      there was an easy solution at hand. They raised their rifles.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Click. Click. Click</em>. <em class="calibre7">Click. Click. Click</em>.
      <em class="calibre7">Click. Click.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Extinguishing Charm suppressed small fires. That included
      small chemical fires. That included the ignition of the primer in
      the 5.56×45mm NATO cartridges in the soldier's guns.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two worlds were separated, but not by that much. The Záh
      Kardja used flamethrowers during Grindelwald's War, and many
      wizards were constantly scrutinizing the Muggle world - if only so
      that they could disguise themselves better (or make ironic devices,
      like a lighter that turns off lights). Unfortunately for Smith and
      Wesson, guns happened to be unusually easy to disable with simple
      and quick magics.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"References are only funny-" said George.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"-if everyone is in on the joke," completed Fred. The twins
      snapped their fingers at the front and rear doors to the store, and
      both locks clicked audibly closed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The <em class="calibre7">exact opposite</em> is true… it's funnier if only a few
      people understand what's going on," retorted Neville. "<em class="calibre7">Stupefy!
      Stupefy!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Iksa jir!" screamed one soldier, still pointing his gun at
      Neville and wildly pulling the trigger, even as two of his
      companions fell to the ground, shivering with red energies. A
      fourth soldier barked at another, "Wac caawimaad!", as he threw
      down his own gun and pulled a knife. It was a short blade with a
      tape-wrapped handle; the cutting edge was concave with long use and
      frequent sharpening. The Ogaden fighter hefted it lightly in one
      hand, and advanced, his face hard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Stupefy</em>!" cast George and Fred in unison, and the
      knife-wielding soldier slouched sideways, stunned. Four of the five
      remaining soldiers dropped their guns and raised their hands, one
      pleading, "Joogso, sixir, joogso!" The fifth combatant appeared too
      terrified to do anything more than pull the trigger on his useless
      gun again and again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The three wizards stunned them all, methodically and easily. The
      entire encounter was finished within a minute.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The work was easy, as it always was when the three magical
      knuckleheads zipped somewhere on the globe to be superheroes around
      Muggles. They were skilled Hit Wizards backed by the most powerful
      wizard and most powerful organization on the globe, and so
      naturally there wasn't much risk. If they did get in trouble,
      they'd teleport out and call in like… fifty more guys. It was like
      the SAS fighting toddlers, and the most serious danger to the trio
      was the terrible quality of their own jokes. Example: they'd called
      their trio the "Shichinin" (七人, or "Seven People") because they
      really loved a Kurosawa movie Harry had once shown them, and
      because Fred and George were certain that "our enemies will think
      there's four more of us somewhere!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After they'd finished stunning the soldiers, Neville, Fred, and
      George took their guns and ammunition, feeding them into pouches
      designated for that purpose (whose extra-dimensional space must be
      positively bulging with tens of thousands of pounds' worth of
      armaments at this point), and Fred bubbled an Obliviator squad. It
      wasn't that the three of them couldn't have done the False Memory
      Charms, of course, but rather that the professionals had enormous
      experience in designing plausible multi-cultural explanations for
      bewildering events. They could even design the new memories to
      serve a larger purpose. In this case, the new memories would
      encourage these soldiers to abandon armed conflict and take up a
      peaceful political movement within Muggle Somalia.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Obliviators were quite good at handling these situations.
      The usual method was to create a tragic and deeply affecting past
      event, prolonged discussion, and personal agreement for each
      participant. In Kosovo, the Obliviators had helped the Shichinin
      turn an entire division of the State Security Service of Yugoslavia
      away from violence by crafting a fictional encounter where two of
      their armed squads were ordered to kill an Albanian family who'd
      refused to leave their home. A little girl from the family made an
      impassioned speech and offered them flowers, instead, and all the
      members of that squad remembered being moved to tears and vowing to
      preserve the lives of the people above all else.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had called it "weaponizing cognitive dissonance" when he'd
      given them their mission, after a considerable speech about how it
      was monstrously unethical to simply ignore the massacres that took
      place on a regular basis in the Muggle world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"These are fancy guns," said Fred, examining the last rifle.
      He'd grown to be tall and handsome, with a thick mop of
      reddish-brown hair and a strong jaw. "Very shiny and new." He threw
      it to George, who caught it and squinted at it closely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We've been seeing a lot of fancy guns, lately," said George,
      nodding. George had also grown to be tall and handsome, although -
      unlike his brother - he had a strong jaw and a thick mop of
      reddish-brown hair. He glanced at Neville. "Remember the guns we
      got off those fellows in Jijiga?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred spoke to the pouch in his hand: "Gun from Jijiga
      warehouse." When a stock appeared at the mouth of the pouch, Fred
      grabbed it and pulled a rifle free. The mouth of the pouch chewed
      toothlessly at the gun as it emerged, the lips undulating around
      the weapon. It was a rifle just like the one in George's hand:
      matte black metal with a plastic-looking black stock. It looked
      much more modern than the cheap Chinese or Eastern European guns
      they usually found (mostly AK-47s or variants).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville sat on a stack of plastic-wrapped soda flats, frowning.
      "Where is the ONLF getting these guns?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's ask them! Fred, do you speak Somali?" asked George.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why no, George. Say, do <em class="calibre7">you</em> speak Somali?" said
      Fred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I used to, Fred, but I'm afraid being forced to watch boring
      movies where mustachioed men bang coconuts together has quite
      driven it out of my head," said George, sadly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's a shame, George."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A terrible tragedy, Fred."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe quoting constantly about dead parrots will help bring the
      knowledge back, George."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why of course, Fred! That's the ticket! That won't be extremely
      annoying at all!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You just don't appreciate true genius," said Neville, sourly.
      The wiry young man had a prominent nose and flashing green eyes. He
      gestured for the rifle, and George threw it over to him. Neville
      spoke to his own pouch. "Gun encyclopedia."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True genius is repeating the same 'nudge nudge wink wink' line
      over and over, George."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quite right, Fred! And singing songs about lumberjacks!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"AK-101," said Neville, comparing a photograph in <em class="calibre7">The
      Illustrated World Encyclopedia of Guns</em> with the rifle in his
      hand. "Oh, bloody hell, it says that right on the barrel. And
      there's a date. 1999… these are brand new. 'ИЖМАШ'… these are
      Russian, not cheap knock-offs."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The OLNF is getting monies from Egypt-" said Fred, more
      seriously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"-but where did they find someone to sell them these?" said
      George.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Those Eritrean blokes had fancy rifles, too. The ones shooting
      civilians in Maidema?" said Fred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Someone is aggravating these wars, on purpose or for profit,"
      said George, scowling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're thinking what I'm thinking?" Neville asked, feeding gun
      and book back into his pouch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Find the source of the fellow willing to sell the best hardware
      to the worst people-" said George.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"-and cut off the supply, and maybe his hands too-" said
      Fred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"-and we might save a lot more lives," finished Neville.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">April 3rd, 1999</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Jijiga, Somali Regional State, Ethiopia</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The rangeland surrounding the city of Jijiga was greener than it
      usually would have been; the drought had killed off eight of every
      ten grazing cattle, and the xerophytic acacia and crossberry on the
      gentle hills around the city had flourished in their absence. The
      warehouse was in a small complex of storage buildings to the north,
      past the airport and the dry riverbed. It was actually quite a
      pretty area - quiet, and far enough from the main city that there
      were almost none of the sun-bleached scraps of trash that were
      usually littered everywhere.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As they approached the building on foot, Fred and George paused
      to gather handfuls of crossberries, and some of the purple,
      star-shaped flowers. They would be a nice surprise for their mum.
      If there had been any observers, it would have looked an odd sight:
      the Shichinin were Disillusioned, and it would have seemed as
      though berries and flowers were vanishing into thin air, one by
      one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Outside of their Mobile Mary, the trio was virtually always
      Disillusioned. It was an unfortunate necessity when working in any
      of the places in the world where white people were rare. There were
      other ways to avoid sticking out, of course, but this was the
      easiest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville pushed open the simple door to the plain corrugated
      metal of the warehouse. It was unlocked, and the place looked
      deserted. The heavy metal shelves were mostly bare. The entire
      place appeared just as it had when they'd left a week ago, except
      that the four stunned guards and Obliviator squad had gone, and the
      eight crates of automatic weapons had been disposed of (the large
      crates being rather too inconvenient for the Shichinin to take care
      of themselves).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred and George made a beeline for the two old card tables that
      had been set up in one corner. They'd remembered that there had
      been some paperwork there - shipping forms and tariff slips.
      Ethiopia had strict import and export controls, as well as high
      tariffs. The two wizards found something that appeared to be a
      ledger, with numbers in columns that they guessed represented
      wholesale costs, shipping fees, tariffs, label numbers, and the
      amounts spent on bribes (considered a reasonable business expense
      here, indeed as in most countries). The shipments were mostly
      small, but a few shipments had big numbers - hundreds of thousands
      of birr, the local Muggle money. Not knowing how much the guns cost
      or the exchange rate for… well, anything to anything else, really…
      it was hard to figure out if these were the shipments they
      wanted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We better take this," said Fred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe someone can sort it out for us later," agreed George.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They fed the ledger into Fred's pouch, and checked in with
      Neville. He wasn't inside, but they soon found him. He was sorting
      through discarded shipping crates. Most of them had been reused or
      repurposed, but some of them were broken or damaged along the
      joints, and had been tossed in a haphazard pile outside the
      warehouse. Many of the more robust crates had handfuls of moldy hay
      still inside of them, which had once kept contents dry and
      cushioned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Find anything?" he asked, as he shifted broken-sided crates
      around.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A ledger for recording transactions, we think," said
      George.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe just looks like it, though," added Fred as an
      afterthought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh ho… creeping quackgrass!" said Neville, delighted. He
      snatched up a loose handful of of withered brown stalks from one of
      the crates.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred and George looked at each other, trying to decide if he'd
      made that up. They decided that he hadn't.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course it is," said Fred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We were about to say the same thing," said George.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bleeding obvious it's quacking creepgrass," snorted Fred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Embarrassing you even have to say anything, really," laughed
      George.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No… there's some Siberian Spurge in here, too… <em class="calibre7">Euphorbia
      seguieriana</em>," mused Neville. "I wonder if this is a different
      wheatgrass, other than quackgrass."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you feed a boffin like this?" Fred asked George.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing, you just let them swot and change their litter
      regularly," answered George.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Grass Genera</em>," commanded Neville to his pouch. He sat
      down with the resulting <em class="calibre7">The Grass Genera of the World</em>, and
      got to work.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At least an hour and four games of gobstones later, Neville made
      a hooting sound of glee. "I have it, gentlemen!" He leapt to his
      feet, and trotted over to where Fred and George were squatting,
      flicking marbles on a chalked-up board. Fred looked up, wiping his
      face, and asked, "Oh, good, we were worried it would take
      forever-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"-and be extremely boring to even think about," said George,
      scooping up the gobstones.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This hay is from the Don River valley in Russia!" said Neville,
      grinning hugely. "The only place where any <em class="calibre7">Agropyron</em> grows
      with the <em class="calibre7">Euphorbia seguieriana</em> subspecies
      <em class="calibre7">niciciana</em>! It's… it's... " He grasped for some suitable
      word. "It's elementary!" he declared, after a moment, lamely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It might seem unbelievable that anyone could be such a nerd.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And yet it's true.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then it's back to Abuja-" said Fred, referring to Nigeria's
      capital.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"-where we can catch a portkey back home for a nap and some
      brekkie," finished George, referring to rashers and eggs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And then: Russia!" declared Neville, relishing the idea. He
      triumphantly held a handful of moldy hay.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">A nap and brekkie later</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Main Office, Department of Magical Law Enforcement, Ministry
      of Magic, London</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good evening, gentlemen," said Director Diggory. He was
      examining a map on the wall, tracing routes with his finger as he
      consulted one book plucked from a large stack, and occasionally
      sipping a large mug of tea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The young man was only a few years their senior, and they'd all
      once gone to school together. The twins had even had a nickname for
      Cedric: "Pretty Boy Diggory." Director Diggory was aware of this,
      but - oddly - didn't find the name all that hurtful. He'd had to
      grow a thick skin, since he was in command of aurors decades older
      than him. Fortunately for him, there were few complaints by this
      point, six months into his command. He benefited from a great many
      factors: he was shockingly good at his job, he was blisteringly
      handsome in a way that made Madame Bones blush, he was personal
      friends with the Tower, and he was from a house so Noble and Most
      Ancient that the <em class="calibre7">first</em> Chief Auror had been named Eldritch
      Diggory (who had gone on to be Minister for Magic).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We brought in a temporary Muggle expert with the usual
      procedure, and sorted some of this out," said Diggory, closing the
      book next to him and sitting at his desk. He brought his tea with
      him, setting it at his elbow. He picked up a sheet of parchment.
      "He's identified the source of that crate: an airport in Russia in
      a town called Mikhaylovka, by way of Veshenskaya."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, yes," said George, wisely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We summer there," said Fred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lovely place," said George.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wonderful flowers," said Fred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Beautiful plumage," said Neville.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The twins groaned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You three go to Russia. Bring Bogdanov with you; she'll be able
      to help."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The twins groaned a second time, and George flopped dramatically
      forward onto Diggory's desk for a moment, leaning over the
      Director's tea with exaggerated despair. Ilya Bogdanov had been the
      head of the Office for the Detection and Confiscation of
      Counterfeit Defensive Spells and Protective Objects until recently.
      She had survived the great purge of the Ministry in 1994, probably
      as an attempt to conciliate the Malfoy faction by leaving one of
      their number in a position of power, but she'd burned through all
      of her chances to turn over a new leaf, and had been demoted. Percy
      had told the twins at family dinner one Sunday that Bogdanov had
      been lucky to keep any sort of job at all, since they'd had dozens
      of complaints about her attitude.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's enough," said Diggory, scowling. "None of you knows
      Russian or Russian. Bogdanov speaks eight languages, and grew up
      with Russian. She went to Durmstrang, too, and most of the people
      now in charge there were her classmates. If you want to do this
      thing, tracking down guns in one of the Independent states, you're
      taking her. Things are too tense with them right now,
      politically... we don't want to push them further away thanks to
      some idiots meddling in their affairs without a guide. I don't care
      what you think of personality. Take her… otherwise, you're off to
      Yemen, <em class="calibre7">tout de suite</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Shichinin grumbled as they walked down the hall to the
      elevators, to head down to the ODCCDSPO's overflow offices.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She's a pureblood fanatic from Russia who graduated Durmstrang,
      loves Malfoy, and just got demoted," said Neville, glumly. "We'll
      be there ten minutes before she stuns us in the back and feeds
      pieces of us to snargaluffs."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All the more reason to take her along-" said George.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"-and expose her as a traitor," said Fred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But we'll be in pieces inside of snargaluffs!" objected
      Neville.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When else will we have the opportunity to flush her out? She's
      kept her head down since she lost her position to Covenant, keeping
      quiet. Probably spending her time sending detailed reports to
      Narcissa and Draco Malfoy," said Fred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And relaxing in her off-hours, painting a series of tasteful
      landscapes in the blood of muggleborns," said George.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They stepped onto the elevator, accompanied by a flurry of
      interdepartmental memos that circled busily overhead, and hit the
      button for the fourth level. Almost half of all DMLE and DMAC
      (Department of Magical Accidents and Catastrophes) offices were now
      on other floors, since the second and third floors were full.
      Aurors and arithmancers and a few other professions had done very
      well in the Ministry, of late. Fortunately, there was room to
      spare, since middle management and licensing boards and regulators
      had been decimated. The entire games division had simply been
      sacked in 1995, after losing half their staff the year before.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred knocked on Bogdanov's door when they arrived there, calling
      out, "Hello? Madame Bogdonov?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come," said a sharp voice, and George opened the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hullo, Madame," said Fred to the older witch who was sitting at
      a desk inside the cramped and dark office. "The Director sent us…
      he was wondering if you would lend us a hand with an
      excursion?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Agapa Ilyichna Bogdanov put down the parchment in her hands,
      looking at the Shichinin coolly. She was perhaps a hundred years of
      age, with grey hair kept in a short pixie cut. She was one of a
      shrinking percentage of older Ministry workers who hadn't taken
      advantage of rejuvenation, and it showed: the skin hung loose at
      her neck but was taut on her face, and liver spots were visible on
      her thin hands. Her blue eyes were still sharp, though, as she
      regarded them with visible displeasure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hullo, gentlemen. So two Weasleys and a Longbottom want me to
      go on an 'excursion?' " she asked. There was only a slight trace of
      a Slavic accent. "I don't know whether to be flattered or
      frightened."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The <em class="calibre7">Director</em> has asked that you accompany us to
      Russia, Madame Bogdanov… we're trying to track down the source of
      some Muggle weapons," said Neville. "We were hoping to leave
      tomorrow morning, if that is possible. I hope you're not too
      busy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bogdanov glanced at the parchment in her hands, and dropped it
      to the desk with a look of distaste. It fell among dozens of other
      sheets and forms. "I am <em class="calibre7">not</em>. They have put me in this
      dreary little office and set me to writing reports and giving
      depositions to the Wizengamot on counterfeit Safety Sticks and
      other such trivialities. It is busy work, nothing more. So no one
      in the department has to speak to me, you see." She collected
      parchments into a rough stack with a few aggressive movements, then
      dumped them in a pile to one side. "Why is the babe-in-charge
      interested in Muggle weapons?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">George explained, "Someone is selling powerful guns to some bad
      people in Africa - in Ethiopia - and it's making a few wars down
      there a lot worse. The Ogaden National Liberation Front and the
      Eritrean militia groups have been-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait… a wizard is selling Muggle weapons?" interrupted the
      witch, raising her eyebrows in surprise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," said Fred. "It's probably a Muggle. But the ONLF and the
      Eritreans used to only have cheap old guns, and not many of them.
      Now they're better supplied, and it's showing in the civilian death
      toll down there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So a Muggle is selling Muggle weapons to other Muggles, and
      those Muggles are killing still other Muggles," said Bogdanov,
      rolling her eyes. "What is our concern?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">That</em> is our concern," said George. "A lot of people
      are being hurt-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"-and we're in a position to stop it," said Fred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know your little trio's mandate," said Bogdanov, rising to
      her feet and walking to the coatrack. She pulled down her cloak,
      and settled it over her robes. "But surely you don't waste your
      time pretending to be some sort of… Muggle aurors? What possible
      difference do you make, when they die like ants all day long?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred and George glanced at each other. Their lips were tight.
      Neville hurriedly spoke up. "We've been making a lot of difference.
      We're mobile, we're effective, and we're stopping hundreds of
      future deaths every day."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And why is that our responsibility? Are we Muggles, now?" she
      asked, fastening her cloak in place. "No, never mind. Spare me. I
      will go with you, no argument. Better than pushing parchment here.
      And it has been months since I was back home. Let us go make
      arrangements."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The limit on how far one could Apparate was a combination of the
      physical and metaphorical distance. Land's End to John o' Groats
      was a single trip for a native Englishman, but a Bulgarian
      attempting the hop had better have his three D's firmly in mind.
      Any trip of any considerable distance, then, required portkeys -
      for the sake of safety and brevity both. One of the great
      advantages enjoyed by Ministry officials - aurors and Hit Wizards
      included - was ready access to the Official Business desk at the
      Portkey Office. Further, the assistance of the Chief Mugwump of the
      International Confederation of Wizards, as well as the Tower (who
      had considerable influence in any Treaty state, such as Nigeria),
      eased any concerns about international travel. The Shichinin had
      been extremely fortunate in their friends, as events would have it…
      perhaps anyone in close proximity to figures of mighty destiny
      would have a tendency to get caught up in orbit, swirling around in
      the eddies of fate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Shichinin, accompanied by Bogdanov, who had humorlessly told
      them to call her "Ilya," were soon on their way, whisked by portkey
      to the closest available destination to Mikhaylovka: Volgograd.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Truth be told, the portkey - the stiff and filthy cover of an
      old library copy of a Muggle book named <em class="calibre7">Battlefield Earth</em>
      - came from a box labeled "Tsaritsyn," but that was nearly a
      century behind the times. Muggle names changed too frequently for
      the Portkey Office to worry about, and they made do with a huge
      blackboard scrawled with guides to the current nomenclature.
      Really, the Shichinin had gotten lucky that Russia was relatively
      stable: some Muggle areas were so prone to changing their names
      that the Office had given up. After Herzegovina's Tomislavgrad
      changed its name for the fourth time in a century (Duvno became
      Tomislavgrad became Duvno and then finally back to Tomislavgrad),
      the Office had stopped making portkeys for the city entirely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a fairly long trip from London to Volgograd: 2,400 miles
      or so. They snapped the dirty piece of ruler in half, standing in
      the Ministry atrium off in a quiet one corner, and it felt as if a
      rope had been knotted around their waists and yanked violently,
      pulling them sideways and up and back and around. They whirled down
      to the ground and came to a staggering stop, but their feet sank
      into an inch of thick mud almost immediately. Neville waved his
      arms around wildly for a moment to keep his footing, his boots
      skidding a pace.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was fairly cool, but not so cold that it was uncomfortable.
      Even here, spring was a pleasant time of year. They were in a
      building that was mostly empty, but which seemed to superficially
      resemble a barn (albeit with poor drainage). A ragged bulletin
      board, its lower edge looking as though it had been chewed upon,
      bore a few parchments stamped with the ornate crest of the Russian
      Oak. They were in the right place. The right muddy, run-down place.
      The right muddy, run-down, manure-strewn, dangerous-looking
      place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"An hour and a half to Mikhaylovka," said Bogdanov, who was
      wrapping a scarf around her neck, having leaned her broom against
      the bulletin board. "We should go check in with the Domovoi here
      and then be on our way, if we wish to have a few hours of light
      when we get there. Bukavac live in the rivers and feed at night, so
      we should not linger. They feed on children." She glanced at her
      three youthful companions, who seem to have missed her implication
      as they buttoned mackintoshes over their robes. They only nodded,
      looking around warily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Domovoi was situated in the dirty brick Muggle civil
      services building, a disappointing distance away from the beautiful
      neoclassical City Duma. Most of the offices in the civil service
      appeared to have no function except to support an astonishing
      variety of people taking quiet naps. The Domovoi was one of these:
      a sleepy-looking little man with a wilting wet mustache, who
      unquestioningly stamped their documents and waved them on their
      way. He probably would have done the same if a trio of Voldemorts
      in fiery hats appeared in front of him with their own documents. It
      was comforting to know that there was some constancy in the
      world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They kicked off from outside of the building within minutes,
      riding cruiser brooms that were comfortable for long hauls, but
      which could be adjusted for better speed and maneuverability if
      necessary (mostly a matter of aerodynamics and swapping out the
      forward hand-hold, to replace the Braking Charm with a version
      featuring tighter turns). They flew while Disillusioned, as
      standard procedure dictated. The invisibility might seem silly,
      especially when they left the last buildings of Volgograd far
      behind, and the only Muggle road wended its way in and out of sight
      among vast stretches of unpopulated wheatfields and steppes below,
      but time had proven its utility. The only annoying thing was the
      necessity to use minor charms to keep track of everyone's location,
      and the occasional confusion that resulted when someone fell behind
      (bathroom breaks were the usual culprit).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a longish period of silence, Bogdanov drew her broom
      alongside Neville's, and called out a question. She had to raise
      her voice to be heard over the wind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tell me something," she called. "Why are more Muggles a good
      thing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?!" replied Neville, unsure if he'd heard her correctly.
      He'd thought she had asked why more Muggles would be a good thing,
      but that was something a cartoonish sociopath would say.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why are more Muggles a good thing? You're interfering with
      their little wars to save them, and now we go to stop Muggles from
      selling Muggle guns to other Muggles. You're taking responsibility
      for them, like a shepherd. But shepherds have a very good reason
      for their work. What is your reason?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were spells to make this sort of chatting easier in the
      face of the wind, but Neville wasn't sure he wanted to be having
      this conversation at all, so he didn't cast any of them. "We're not
      shearing the Muggles, if that's what you're asking," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, but you're making yourself their masters, which seems a
      curious thing for someone like you to do. To step in and say who
      should live and who should die - by virtue of where you intervene
      and where you do not - that is making choices for them, yes? And
      you are deciding as a principle that more Muggles is better. You
      want to stop them from being shot, yes?" Bogdanov sounded amused by
      the entire idea: Neville could imagine her sharp eyes as sardonic
      and mocking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sort of," said Neville, after pausing to think. "It's more… if
      you have the ability to save someone's life - anyone's life - you
      should do it. And that's especially true when it's very easy." He
      pointed down to the ground below them, picking out a small lake
      from near its parent river as it passed beneath, then realized she
      couldn't see the gesture. "Like if there was a person down there in
      the pond, even a stranger, you would go and help them. That's still
      something you should do if the pond is a mile away, or a hundred
      miles away."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To Bogdanov's credit, she didn't answer right away, but actually
      thought about what she'd heard. This is rarer than one might
      imagine. Their brooms drifted apart. Eventually, though, she pulled
      back in close, and said, "I should think that it would be good if I
      could save the person, but it is not my duty. Not my job." Neville
      was going to reply, but she went on. "And if I save one person,
      then I would have to save the person in the next pond, yes?
      Otherwise I am deciding that the first person is better. Soon I am
      saving all the people in all the ponds… being <em class="calibre7">able</em> to do
      it makes it <em class="calibre7">necessary</em>, for you, yes? We do what we must,
      because we can?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville had a ready answer for this, since he'd heard Hermione
      Granger talk about this with Harry. He shook his head, and called
      back, "No… you rescue as many people as you can, without ruining
      your own life. Doing the right thing can't mean destroying
      yourself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can't it?" called back Bogdanov, maddeningly, and pulled her
      broom away. But Neville wasn't about to challenge his own
      conclusions just because this Russian witch was confusing
      contrariness for wittiness. He rolled his eyes and kicked his broom
      up another ten meters, pulling level with where his charm said the
      twins would be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that was an unpleasant conversation," he said to the
      air.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tell me something, young man -" called George.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"- have you really never tried a fine filet of Muggle?" said
      Fred, smacking his lips noisily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bogdanov was left to fly alone the rest of the journey, while
      the Shichinin chatted about other ways to leverage their mission.
      The older woman might have meant to be nasty, but she'd brought to
      Neville's mind the possibility of force-multipliers. This single
      arms dealer could be - <em class="calibre7">should be</em> just the beginning of a
      new phase of their operations. It was widely known (widely
      rumoured, anyway) that Harry was engaged in all sorts of Muggle
      charity. Fred was friendly with a bloke who worked as an
      arithmancer at the Ministry, and it was apparently a pretty open
      secret that they were shipping out truckloads of advanced water
      filters, cooking stoves, and other goods. So Neville and the twins
      didn't think they'd step on his toes, there. But it would be quick
      and easy to smash up some weapons factories, for example. There
      were strict regulations about subverting Muggle politics, but none
      of the Shichinin could think of any legal, ethical, or practical
      objection to making sure that arms manufacturing suffered a brisk
      run of bad luck.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What could be wrong with that, really?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bogdanov brought her broom up to their level, clicking at them
      four times. They all dropped their Disillusionment for the time
      being, and came to a halt. Fred leaned over and pulled a beetle out
      of Neville's hair, where the thing had become trapped at some point
      during the past hour or so.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mikhaylovka," Bogdanov said, pointing ahead. It looked like
      just larger version of some of the uninteresting grey Muggle towns
      they'd passed, but a brightly-colored banner was visible strapped
      to a grain elevator and labeled with blocky Cyrillic lettering - it
      must have meant something to Bogdanov.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Crescent lakes, reservoirs, and canals marked this southern side
      of the town, as well as some industrial-looking buildings to the
      east. Squat houses with fenced-in grounds surrounded one large lake
      directly in front of them, continuing off to the west.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred took out a pair of omnioculars, and scanned the town. Train
      tracks bisected Mikhaylovka - if the shipment of arms they'd
      tracked had needed to be moved about, before being loaded on a
      plane and sent on to Veshenskaya, that may have been how it had
      been done. Wordlessly, Fred held the omnioculars to one side, where
      George was holding out his hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not a lot of factories, here. Some other Muggle industries, but
      not a lot of manufacturing on a big scale," said George, peering
      through the device.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Some places working with big piles of rock and sand, other
      places with grain silos and those trucks… not a lot of big
      factories," agreed Fred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It has been much time since Muggle Mastery for me," said
      Bogdanov, leaning forward on her broom and using one finger to push
      her hair off of her forehead. "What do you mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're saying that the Muggle who shipped the guns to Africa
      probably wasn't selling them directly - whoever operates from here
      was a middleman. Like how Potage's doesn't make the cauldrons they
      sell… they buy them from craft-shops, instead," said Neville.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe the gun craft-shop is hidden here as something else,"
      said Bogdanov. She might have been trying to be helpful, or she
      might have just enjoyed meddling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville shrugged. "Maybe. But to run a place like that, you need
      lots of things from other Muggle places, I think. Hard to hide… and
      why bother?" He shook his head. "Plus, our current theory is that
      the whole thing is illegal, so we're really looking for a
      middleman, like Potage."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nip in the train station-" said Fred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"-and have Madame Bogdanov chat with someone who might know?"
      said George, lowering the omnioculars and offering them to the
      Russian witch. She waved them away, and Neville swung his broom
      around to take them, instead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sounds like a plan. Madame, if you're up for a quick chat and
      Confundus Charm? The airstrip here looks small, so if many heavy
      industrial crates, ones that may contain guns, have been trucked on
      out there from the train station over the past year, that's
      probably our guy. There shouldn't be that many… too expensive for
      most shipping." said Neville. "We find the source, and we've found
      our arms dealer… and whoever's stoking the flames in Ethiopia."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Happily I will comply. Why so easy, though? Would this person
      not fear Muggle authorities?" Bogdanov said. They all began
      lowering their altitude, to bring themselves to a rest behind a
      deserted-looking grain silo.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think it's something they worry about here-," said
      George.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"-although Muggle politics are bloody insane, so who even
      knows." said Fred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So this isn't even a crime - selling the guns? You are happy to
      overrule their own leaders, and decide for them what should not be
      allowed, eh?" Bogdanov said, smiling and raising her eyebrows.
      "Makes sense to me, but it's surprising."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No one took the bait.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Landing on the ground, they stowed their brooms. Bogdanov didn't
      have Hit Wizard gear, but Fred had brought along an extra pouch for
      her to use as a convenience. It was actually very thoughtful of
      him; there were four loaner pouches in the DMLE, and he'd made sure
      he requisitioned the good one for her (the only one of the four
      that didn't stink of troll, for whatever reason). The four of them
      recast their disillusionment, sorted out who would lead the way
      with a clicker in hand, did some basic security scans to check if
      they were being observed, and got moving at a brisk walk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The walk to the train station brought them almost all the way
      through Mikhaylovka, walking along the roads that ran next to the
      tracks. It seemed like the workday was winding down as the day
      itself waned; a scratching of cirrus clouds forming overhead helped
      darken the remaining daylight. Sunset proper wouldn't arrive for
      hours yet, but the streets were beginning to fill with people. It
      was only Thursday, but there were already some drinking parties
      audibly going on - the four wizards saw a sizeable contingent of
      men in overalls dusty with chalk, walking down the street with
      bottles in hand and enjoying the mild evening with a mellow song.
      Quite a nice town, really.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The train station had tall fences and some guards posted, but it
      was easy enough to stroll past the tollbooth and duck under the
      barrier arm. Bogdanov took the lead once they were up onto the
      rust-streaked concrete slabs of the platform, clicking three times
      to signal she wanted to take charge. She glanced at the signs
      invisibly and led them with intervals of clicks past pallets
      stacked with plastic sacks of concrete, forklifts, piles of
      rough-barked ties, and the other machinery necessary for a rural
      freight. Two trains were being loaded with containers of crushed
      rock, via slow and painstaking maneuvers with short cranes. A lot
      of yelling was apparently essential to the process.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bogdanov paused in front of a red-painted door with squat green
      Russian words on it, and clicked four times. The four of them
      dispelled their Disillusionment once more, and the Shichinin
      followed her wordlessly into the office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Confundo.</em> Инспекция!" said the Russian witch to the
      pot-bellied man in grey coveralls standing in front of a cheap
      plastic filing cabinet. "Я нуждаюсь в ваших записей на поставки в
      взлетно-посадочной полосы."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man blinked rapidly past a pair of thick bifocals, but
      eventually shook his head as though to clear it, and answered
      hesitantly, "Конечно. Все в порядке, инспектор." He leaned down and
      opened the bottom drawer, drawing out a file folder and offering it
      to her. Its label had been scribbled out and rewritten at least
      five times. "Есть только несколько договоров такого рода…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Были ли какие-либо большие ящики груза?" asked Bogdanov,
      accepting the folder. She spoke sharply and brusquely. Neville
      glanced at the twins, uneasily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Курагин, только. Это тарифы?" said the man. Bogdanov brushed
      away the man's question with a puffing of her lips.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I believe we have - oh, <em class="calibre7">Somnium</em> - I believe we have
      the man you're looking for. A man named Kuragin is the only
      contractor in town who regularly has them run such things to the
      airstrip." She studied the documents in the file folder with
      evident distaste, as the man she'd questioned collapsed into sleep.
      "Lev Kuragin. Although the manifests for his shipping says that
      they're all 'machine parts,' this is the only person who fits your
      bill."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Does it have a location there?" George asked, grunting as he
      dragged the man into a sitting position against one wall. Fred drew
      his wand and cast a quick Obliviate on the man's last five
      minutes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. No trouble."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then you take the lead," said Neville, and Disillusioned
      himself. The other three followed suit, and Bogdanov led them out,
      clicking at intervals.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6">About twenty minutes later, deep into dusk, they arrived at a
      prefabricated construction-site trailer resting on cinder blocks.
      Unfinished wood paneling and two old doors had been nailed together
      to extend or repair one end of the trailer, which was surrounded by
      weeds. A green pickup truck, bleached by the elements, sat outside
      next to a shiny new motorbike. There was no sign in front of the
      low-roofed building, but a small hand-printed label on the mailbox
      outside read, "КУРАГИН ЭКСПОРТ / ИМПОРТ." The windows were opaque
      with grime, but it was still evident that a light was on and that
      someone was inside. Bogdanov clicked twice. It must be the
      place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's go around back, and go in from there," said Fred,
      quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Put whoever's inside to sleep, and quiz them a bit," said
      George.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Somehow, although they were all still invisible, the Shichinin
      could hear Bogdanov roll her eyes. Still, they all moved quietly
      out behind the trailer, foregoing the clicks at this point, before
      removing their Disillusionment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Phlogisticate</em>," cast Neville on one end of the
      trailer, and then again on the other end. "Guns are stupid," he
      whispered to Bogdanov, turning to her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Agreed," replied the Russian witch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Quietus</em>," said Neville, laying a thin blanket of quiet
      around the door of the trailer. It was a spell very limited in
      scope, but essential for moments like this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just stay here-" said George.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"-and let us take care of this," said Fred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're professionals," they said, in unison, looking very
      serious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bogdanov folded her arms, a light smile on her lips.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The trio of young men crept up to the trailer's back door.
      Neville tried the doorknob gingerly - it turned cleanly. He stepped
      to one side, and Fred and George squared off in front of the
      doorway, wands out and ready to breach. They nodded in unison at
      Neville, and Neville threw the door open with a convulsive
      motion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It is important to note at this point that the Extinguishing
      Charm has no effect whatsoever on an angry dog.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One hundred and thirty pounds of angry muscle in the form of a
      mottled-brown Presa lunged into Fred, snapping for his throat, and
      the wizard was knocked backward into his twin's face. The two men
      and the dog fell into a struggling tangle. The impact and the
      snarling dog were all eerily silent for the first moment, then the
      wizard's backpedaling and kicking as they fought to escape the
      blunt-nosed snapping attack of the dog brought them out of the
      short range of the Quieting Charm, and the snarling of the creature
      burst out into the night.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville didn't waste any time taking careful aim, and fired off
      a hasty Stunning Hex immediately into the tangle just as Fred
      succeeded in landing a well-placed kick to the dog's snout. A
      pained yelp was frozen in the beast's throat. The dog trembled with
      a red glow for a moment, then fell stiffly onto its side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nice one!" said Fred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bloody hell!" said George, still lying on his back. "Someone's
      getting away!" He scrabbled for his lost wand. Through the rear of
      the trailer and the open front door, he could see a bald man
      throwing a leg over the motorbike parked out front. The man kicked
      the starter, and the motorbike's engine thrummed hoarsely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville lurched forward to the open door, wand raised, and fired
      a second Stunning Hex. <em class="calibre7">"Stupefy!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">This time, though, luck wasn't with him. The red bolt of the
      stunner sizzled right over the head of the motorbike's rider, and
      as Neville took another step forward to fire again, his heel slid
      on something slick underfoot, skidding out from beneath him. He
      grabbed the doorway with his free hand, but still swayed in place
      for a moment as the motorbike jerked into motion and moved out of
      the narrow range of view afforded by the front door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Less of a nice one!" said Fred, scrambling to his feet, but
      Neville ignored him and sprinted forward, out into the front yard.
      The motorbike accelerated rapidly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come on," shouted George, bursting past Neville. He threw open
      the door to the pale green pickup truck, climbing inside.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred pushed past Neville as well, running around to the other
      side of the cab, while George had his wand out. George squinted at
      the Muggle device warily, and then tapped the ignition with the tip
      of his wand, dubiously saying, "<em class="calibre7">Alohomora</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The ignition switch "unlocked," key or no, and the engine turned
      over and started. George looked almost criminally pleased.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go go go!" cried Neville, leaping into the bed of the truck
      with a vault. He stood up behind the cab and grabbed hold of the
      rear windows for hand-holds. The red light on the motorbike was
      receding rapidly away from them, down the road.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Seen Dad do it a thousand times," said George, as he yanked
      firmly on the gearshift and stamped hard on one of the pedals in
      front of him. Nothing happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Easy as pie," said Fred, turning the crank to roll down his
      window, in case that might help.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">George took his foot off of one pedal, and slammed it down on
      the other. The truck's tires spun for a moment and then the vehicle
      caught traction and began to move rapidly backwards. "Got it!" he
      said, still grinning and turning to look behind him. His view was
      obstructed by Neville's crotch. "You're in the way, Neville!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop stop stop!" shouted Neville in reply. He clutched the roof
      of the truck desperately as the vehicle thumped vigorously over
      some stray cinder blocks and the kerb, out onto the street.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We'll have to tell Dad about this!" called Fred, holding his
      wand to the dashboard in front of him and flexing his fingers for
      the delicate Charm of Perfect Function.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">George took his foot off of the gas, and yanked on the gearshift
      again. The truck made a horrid squeal, sounding almost like a
      precisely-tooled machine being badly abused. Indeed, logic and
      mercy dictated that the engine should probably seize up and die,
      but Fred's timely spell prevented that. The truck's motor
      immediately became a throaty purr, and George stepped on the gas
      again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the car began to lurch forward, George turned the wheel
      rapidly, aligning the truck with the motorbike that was now turning
      out of sight at the end of the lane. George stamped on the gas as
      hard as he could, and the truck's engine roared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The entirely ridiculous chase was on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The motorbike had many advantages, though - being agile and
      quick to accelerate - and by the time they reached the end of the
      lane, it had already reached the end of the next road, and was
      making another turn. Even with magical enhancement and the
      enthusiasm of the ignorant, the truck just wasn't fast enough.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Stupefy!</em>" said Neville, and shot a glowing red bolt at
      the motorbike before it vanished from sight. He was far too distant
      to hit, but the escaping Muggle seemed to have been startled or
      confused by the stunner, since he swerved wildly and barely
      remained upright as he sped out of sight. Neville wasn't even sure
      he wanted to hit the man anyway… being stunned while going that
      speed stood a good risk of killing a Muggle. He pounded on the roof
      with his free hand to urge the truck on, but George already had the
      gas floored back down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure, we could have used our brooms-" said Fred, turning the
      knobs on the radio.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"-but what fun would that have been, honestly?" agreed George,
      spinning the wheel until the vehicle threatened to tilt onto one
      side as it went around the corner.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The motorbike zipped down the road past what appeared to be a
      cannery, accelerating rapidly. Neville almost tried a quick,
      "<em class="calibre7">Accio Muggle</em>," before remembering Cuthbert's Breathing
      Principle. He summoned the motorbike instead, and the white bike
      and its bald passenger visibly slowed. Encouraged, he did it again,
      even though it was a challenge just to stay in the truckbed, much
      less cast at the same time. The radio inside squealed hellishly,
      and Fred hastily started punching buttons on it, as the truck began
      to gain on the motorbike. Slowly, but gaining.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If they got close enough, Neville could pluck the man right up
      and off the bike. He holstered his wand and hammered on the roof
      again, leaning down to shout through the window in the rear of the
      truck's cab, "Get in close, I'll nab him off that thing! Can't stun
      him or he'll crack up all over the place!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes!" replied George, turning to look over his shoulder at
      Neville. "This is much safer!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"At least we're putting him far away from Bogdanov," said Fred.
      "So he might not get eaten. Hold on, I know this song." He turned
      the volume knob on the radio.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Gotta, gotta</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Keep on holdin' on</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Never gonna turn you loose</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I can't turn you loose</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Gotta gotta - Keep on holdin' on</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's on one of Dad's listening-dog discs," said George,
      delighted. He followed the motorbike around another turn, tires
      squealing. "That Muggle device he was always cranking during hols
      when we were twelve."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The motorbike's engine revved loudly, and the rider leaned
      forward. Neville summoned the bike again, but the Muggle motor and
      magical magnetism seemed to be evenly matched. Even worse, they
      were heading east, out of the sparsely-populated outskirts of
      Mikhaylovka and towards the main body of the town. Even now, they
      were starting to pass cars parked on the street, and occasional
      people turning to stare at the high-speed chase. Empty lots and
      dingy warehouses were turning into shops and homes, with overgrown
      bushes that crowded the sidewalk and cement-block walls with iron
      gates. Fairly well-peopled… there was the Statute of Secrecy to
      think about - unless they wanted to call in about ten thousand
      Obliviators.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The motorbike dropped in speed, and turned sharply down a street
      that ran almost parallel to the one the Shichinin were on. The
      Muggle roared off as George hit the brakes, which shrieked in
      protest. They had the chance to get a good look at their target for
      a just a moment, as they slowed down and he sped away: a slightly
      overweight bald man with thick black eyebrows and a terrified look
      on his face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The turn carried them away from the populated areas of town once
      more - that made sense, Neville realized. This guy probably was
      only interested in escape, not in getting caught by Muggle
      aurors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The truck roared after the motorbike, and they scooted over a
      low bridge spanning a narrow canal, whipping past parked cars and a
      woman walking her dog. There was an intersection ahead, and Neville
      saw the bald man's goal: there was some sort of construction going
      on, and most of the intersection was blocked off by orange-painted
      wooden barricades. Even the sidewalk was blocked with some orange
      barrels and cement pylons, presumably to stop overzealous
      motorists. A ragged-edged hole had consumed most of the asphalt
      within the barricades, and an official-looking van was parked
      nearby. The obstruction slowed the traffic of the automobiles
      through the intersection, and there was a line of seven cars
      waiting ahead to inch through. The bald man was going to take
      advantage of his broom-sized motorbike to zip through, leaving them
      in the dust.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unbreakable Charm!" he shouted through the window. His feet
      slid out from underneath him as he called in and the truck bumped
      wildly beneath him. Even with excellent balance and a death-grip on
      the window, he fell into the bed of the truck with a thump that was
      lost in the wind. He concentrated on holding on, so the constant
      bucking of the vehicle didn't just throw him clean out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred and George must have heard him and taken his meaning, or
      come up with his same plan (a frequent occurrence these days),
      since as Neville got up on his knees, he saw Fred touch his wand to
      the dashboard. In almost the same moment, he saw George jerk the
      wheel to the right, and felt a tremendous thump as they jumped the
      kerb onto the sidewalk. Neville almost went flying again, and only
      stayed with the truck by thrusting his arm through the rear window
      and clutching desperately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I can't turn you loose now</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I'm in love with the prettiest thing</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I never, never turn you loose now</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Because of all the sweet love she brings</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I can't turn you loose to nobody</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">'<em class="calibre7">Cause I love you baby, yes I do</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The biker slowed only slightly as he reached the intersection,
      went to the left of the lined-up cars, and threaded past oncoming
      traffic. He made a left turn as soon as he could, vanishing from
      sight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The truck followed to the right of the lined-up cars, shuddering
      along the uneven sidewalk, and smashed through the orange barrels
      and concrete pylons. The barrels turned out to be filled with
      water, which plumed behind them in a spray mixed with chunks of
      broken concrete as the Unbreakable truck, preserved by Fred's
      timely charm, cannoned on through. The motorbike was back in sight
      in moments as the truck shrieked its way around the corner.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Shichinin pursued their prey, leaving wreckage in their
      wake.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That Charm-" said Fred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"-won't last long!" said George.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They glanced at each other and grinned hugely. Some Muggle
      devices worked perfectly well, indefinitely, when charmed. When an
      Unbreakable Charm or a Charm of Perfect Function wore off, you
      could apply another one without worry. But most Muggle machines -
      including any that had electronics, batteries, or the like - would
      endure (at most) a single application unless they were carefully
      prepared (replacement of a lot of the Muggle workings with magical
      equivalents was time-consuming and laborious). As far as they knew,
      no one (Harry included) had yet figured out why. Whatever the
      cause, though, it was certain that this particular vehicle wasn't
      long for this world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And this truck-" said Fred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"-is bollixed when it goes!" said George.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville, meanwhile, struggled to his feet in the bed of the
      truck, holding the back of the cab with a grip so tight his hands
      ached. He drew his wand again. <em class="calibre7">"Accio motorbike! Accio
      motorbike!</em>" They were almost within range of <em class="calibre7">Wingardium
      Leviosa</em>. "Come on, come on!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The motorbike accelerated, the engine now a high-pitched whine
      as it strained against Neville's magic. They were out in the south
      of the town now, a long lake to their left along the road, while
      clapboard houses and rickety fences whipped by on their right.
      Neville didn't remember the layout of the town that well, but he
      was fairly sure that much more travel in this direction would take
      them clear out of Mikhaylovka entirely, back out among the fields
      that they saw on their aerial approach.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Give shaking mama,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I told ya I'm in love with only you</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Gotta, do it baby why don't ya</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I'll give ya everything you want</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The road curved to the right, and then the bald man took a sharp
      left turn. He almost lost control of the bike, over-correcting to
      the right, but he managed to wrestle it back into the straight
      before he took a tumble. George took a lesson, and slowed down his
      fierce stamping of the gas pedal on the turn. They were less than
      fifty meters away now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville, riding higher than the twins, saw what was ahead, and
      began scrambling for his pouch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred and George saw a moment later. George began cranking down
      his window with one hand and pulling out his wand with the other.
      Fred's window was already down, and so he did his brother the favor
      of taking the wheel. The quality of their driving remained exactly
      the same, for better or worse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The road ended in a muddy cul-de-sac two hundred meters ahead,
      and the fields beyond had been flooded. It must have been done
      earlier today - maybe they were going to graze bicorn here, next
      season. It was hard to tell, but it looked like as much as a foot
      of muck and water sat evenly in wide pools ahead, broken only by
      low rocky embankments.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Gotta gotta</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Keep on holdin on</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Never gonna turn you loose</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred took back the wheel with his right hand, and stuck his wand
      out the window with the other. George leaned out of the window,
      brandishing his own wand. Neville had put his away, so that he
      could try to find <em class="calibre7">that damn pouch</em> in his robes <em class="calibre7">oh no
      oh no why don't I keep it on my belt who cares if it doesn't look
      cool</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nevvie, hold on!" shouted George, as loudly as he could.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And that was when Neville realized that <em class="calibre7">he'd</em> come up
      with one obvious solution that the <em class="calibre7">twins</em> had come up with
      a completely different plan. But he had his pouch in hand now, and
      there was <em class="calibre7">no way their plan would work</em>, and so he just
      shrieked, "Broom!" at the pouch as hard as he could, and hoped for
      the best.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The motorbike buzzed off of the road and into the field ahead,
      sluicing through and spraying ribbons of mud and water behind him.
      The man barely even slowed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Glacius! Glacius! Glacius! Glacius! Glacius! Glacius!
      Glacius!</em> " chanted the twins, simultaneously, wobbling the
      tips of their wands over and over. A simple spell with simple
      wandwork, but they felt their skulls ache with the strain of so
      much magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The mud and water of the field ahead froze, a spreading triangle
      of muck flash-chilled into brown and grey ice, crackling and cold.
      It looked as though winter had come to just one section of the
      field, icing it over to within twenty meters of their target.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Unfortunately, it was nothing like a flat surface, thanks to the
      passage of the motorbike. When the truck thumped off of the road
      and roared out into the field, it hit the uneven surface of one
      frozen slope, and skidded to the right, starting to spin. The tires
      thudded across frozen hillocks and waves of muddy ice, and the
      truck danced like it was a child's toy being dragged along a
      washboard. The Weasleys held onto anything they could find, and
      hooted wildly as the truck spun and shuddered. The world whirled
      around them, icy and uneven and crazed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville was launched like a kite into the air, pinwheeling
      wildly and screaming, "I hate you twooooo!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I can't turn you loose</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The accumulated strain on the magics sustaining the truck's
      structure, combined with the conflict between enchantment and
      electronics, came to a peak. The truck's battery exploded
      violently, blasting open the hood, at the same instant the radio
      began to sizzle and shoot sparks. A hole appeared on the top of the
      dash, the plastic darkening and melting away, as some
      carefully-engineered Muggle component crackled with flames. The
      flaming truck spun and shook as it danced along the icy, uneven
      mud.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville was tumbling wildly, end over end, but he had presence
      of mind enough to clutch his broom to himself and hook his leg over
      it and will it to <em class="calibre7">lift</em>...</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Gotta keep a grip on you</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">...and he swooped up (up? yes, up) into the air, orienting
      himself with the ground in seconds, laughing hysterically as he
      evened out and leaned forward, streaking towards the motorbike
      ahead of him like a giddy bolt of lightning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The truck's spin slowed as it skidded out of the area that had
      been frozen, ice turning to slushy mud and slowing the destroyed
      vehicle's revolutions. Fred and George wasted no time, whooping and
      kicking open their doors to stagger out of the truck, sloshing
      around into the mud and staggering drunkenly away from the vehicle
      as best they could.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The radio burbled and screeched, unnaturally riven with
      interfering magics gone haywire, and wailed out a final line of
      music before dying with a last sizzle of static.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Gotta gotta keep on holdin on</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Wingardium Leviosa!"</em> Neville cast, as he dove down
      over the motorbike. The rider was plucked out of his seat, legs and
      rear end lifted up, hands still clinging to the handlebars. The
      motion turned the throttle on the bike, and it revved fiercely;
      without the bald man's weight, the entire thing upended and tore
      itself out of his grasp, rolling and toppling around into the
      mud.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Guns are stupid!" shouted Neville, streaking by the Muggle. The
      young man's mackintosh flapped around him as he flew, his brown
      eyes wide over his aquiline nose. "<em class="calibre7">Stupefy!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The bald man toppled sideways into the mud, rolling on his back
      with a squish of bubbles. Neville brought his broom around, and
      held himself stationary over the man. He found himself wishing that
      he hadn't stunned the fellow, or that the Muggle wouldn't be
      Obliviated of the whole experience, since there were all kinds of
      things he wanted to say, like "You can't run from the sinister
      seven!", or "Nothing's swifter than justice!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He settled for shouting happily at Fred and George, rising up
      from the broom to call, "Do you think we can fit Muggle trucks in
      our pouches, so we can do that again sometime?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, it looked like quite a ride. Quite a spectacle," said the
      empty air above Neville, in the voice of Ilya Bogdanov. The Russian
      witch materialized with a wavering in the air, sitting placidly on
      her broom, as she dismissed her Disillusionment. Neville started
      violently, his wand already pointing at her in the instinctive
      defense of a trained duelist before he could consciously lower his
      guard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bogdanov didn't react, only circling her broom around to face
      him squarely, and adding sardonically, "It has been, oh, just
      <em class="calibre7">delightful</em> following you three idiots and cleaning up the
      mess so that we don't start some sort of war."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh," said Fred, who was flying sedately over, dripping with
      mud and water and delight. "The Director thought you might help
      with avoiding that, actually."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good on him," said George. "I feel bad about the tea, now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Eh?" said Bogdanov, shifting to face them. Her short grey hair
      was disheveled, and the footbars and grips on her broom had been
      changed out - she must have been flying hard. But she was
      smiling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He'll forgive us-" said Fred, shrugging.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"-once he gets off the loo," finished George.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The bald man, as it turns out, was none other than Lev Kuragin
      himself, the gentleman who had been shipping crates out of the town
      by air. And naughty Lev had been using temporary shell companies to
      buy serious weaponry from old Russian Army buddies. While he was
      happy to sell the resulting crates of weapons and ammunition to any
      buyer he could trust, he had found that the Ogaden National
      Liberation Front would pay a premium. Lev had found that the ONLF
      would even grease his palm if he shipped weapons to any other
      militant groups in or around Ethiopia, particularly since the 1995
      Ethiopian elections that had pushed the ONLF out of power. An
      unstable country was to the advantage of the violent political
      minority, which was working to seize power once more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lev even knew the source of their money: vast funds fraudulently
      drawn from World Bank development efforts in Ethiopia, that had
      been intended for the area around Calub, as well as five wealthy
      Cairo financiers. And he'd been extremely willing to tell them
      names, addresses, and specific numbers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Veritaserum was a wonderful thing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After the Shichinin and Bogdanov dropped Kuragin off at the edge
      of town, replete with new memories to account for a missing night
      and morning - and a few to ensure a change of heart when it came to
      the arms trade - they made ready to return home, Apparating back to
      Volgograd and the local Domovoi. They had been concerned about
      having a good story ready for the sleepy-looking man with the wet
      mustache, but he'd stamped their documents as disinterestedly as
      he'd given them entrance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred got out the portkey back to the Ministry lobby, holding it
      up. It was the broken stub of a child's plastic meterstick, in
      keeping with the principle that a portkey should look completely
      uninteresting (or even unpleasant) to casual Muggle inspection.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well then-" he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"-that was fun." George said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I hope it was not too boring for you, Madame Bogdanov," said
      Neville, taking hold of the portkey as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was actually… quite amusing, I must admit, gentlemen. Quite
      a bit more exciting than my current post, even if the goals here
      are even sillier." The Russian witch smiled again, and put her hand
      on theirs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">George and Fred glanced at each other.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, there are five Egyptians who have been spreading
      money to very bad places," said George.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We'll probably be going after them, next. We'll need someone
      who speaks Arabic," said Fred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I can see many interesting philosophical discussions,
      waiting to be had…" said Neville, grinning. "How about it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bogdanov sighed, and shrugged. "Why not?" She put her hand on
      the portkey, and leaned over to look Fred dead in the eye. "After
      all, I know a place in Cairo that serves an excellent fillet of
      Muggle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred opened his mouth to say something, but she snapped the
      portkey, and the four of them vanished.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
