<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>46. Significant Digits - Significant Digits Chapter 22: Gholas, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="46. Significant Digits"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s22" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 22: Gholas</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">The Guild navigators, gifted with limited prescience, had made
      the fatal decision: they'd chosen always the clear, safe course
      that leads ever downward into stagnation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Frank Herbert, <em class="calibre7">Dune</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Innervate. Innervate</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lawrence Bradwian and Annabeth Dankgesang slumped onto the
      chairs that had been set behind them, their rigid bodies relaxing.
      "Just relax a moment, children," Harry said, from where he sat at
      the meeting table. "You're in the Tower, but you're fine. You were
      just stunned."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He glanced up at them, then returned his gaze to the book open
      before him. He turned a page, slowly, and his unoccupied fingers
      fiddled with the end of his ponytail, where it lay over his
      shoulder to curl under his chin. Auror Kwannon stood behind and to
      one side of the pair of students, watching them as she put away her
      wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Feeling all right, Mr. Bradwian?" The boy nodded. He was an
      athletic boy, with striking features… perhaps Middle Eastern
      descent? Close-cut black hair clung in curls to his head, and his
      eyes were a mellow brown. Harry thought he remembered the boy's
      mother was from the Sawad.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you, Miss…?" Harry said, looking to the other student. She
      was a small girl, with black skin and tightly-twisted, short
      dreadlocks. She seemed very calm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She cleared her throat, but spoke clearly, "Annabeth
      Dankesang."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well then, Mr. Bradwian… Ms. Dankesang…. I am Dean of the
      Science Program here at Hogwarts, Harry Potter-Evans-Verres. I
      don't believe we've had occasion to meet," said Harry, glancing
      back down at his book. He could hear the breath catch in Lawrence's
      throat at the introduction. Harry looked up again. "You brought
      your classmate here… Samuel Meroveni-Bowles."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lawrence nodded, collecting himself, and he looked concerned,
      pursing his lips and raising his eyebrows. "Yes, sir. He fell after
      Div and P, and... it was bad, sir. I didn't think we could… well,
      Madame Pomfrey is wonderful, but like the song says, 'when in
      doubt, stick it out.' " The boy was quoting a promotional jingle
      the Tower had used a few years ago. "Is Sammy all right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, yes," said Harry. He watched the two children closely as he
      turned another page of his book, adding, "In fact, he's already
      back in his own bed in Ravenclaw Tower."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He could see the small muscles in the boy's cheeks flex as his
      jaw tightened. Annabeth did better, but her eyes opened wide
      despite her best efforts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You might be wondering why I wanted to speak to you, Lawrence
      and Annabeth. The reason is actually a bit embarrassing… it's been
      brought to my attention over the past hour that you did me quite a
      good turn last year, and I never thanked you. I would have done so
      if I'd known, of course," Harry said. He turned his head so that
      his ponytail would slip off his shoulder, out of sight behind him.
      "I had a question, first, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course, sir," said Annabeth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, then… I suppose I'll start off by saying that I don't
      believe in cruelty, so we'll just out with it now: you're pinched.
      Caught. Discovered. I have had people toy with me too often when
      they had some small measure of power over me, often in the form of
      information I needed, and so I don't have much liking for it. So
      it's best you know straightaway. I'll give you a moment to think
      about that and decide if you believe me." Harry looked back down at
      the book and read the page before him as the seconds passed,
      stretching uncomfortably. After a minute, he finally looked up
      again. The two students were sitting still, hands folded in their
      laps. Lawrence looked like was trying to swallow with a dry
      mouth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I must confess that you will feel quite stupid, very shortly.
      I'm sorry about that," said Harry. "But before we get there, my
      question: why in Merlin's name did you think it would be okay to
      badly injure - very nearly kill - your classmate, just to get what
      you want?" He paused, and clucked his tongue thoughtfully. "Or
      maybe: why did you think <em class="calibre7">I</em> would think that was okay?
      Surely you at least <em class="calibre7">considered</em> your plan might go wrong?
      Didn't you stop to think of the possible consequences?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not sure what you mean, sir," said Lawrence. His voice
      warbled on the second word, and he looked worried.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Wise not to try to appear calm, little Larry, nor indignant.
      But an innocent student would just be</em> confused. <em class="calibre7">Maybe it's
      because people worry so much about being caught for the things
      we've really done that we tend to be completely baffled by false
      accusation.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Auror Kwannon, how many people are stepped-down in the clinic
      right now, in hold?" Harry said, turning to her and leaning to rest
      his chin on one hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Kwannon reached into her pocket and pulled out a small brown
      abacus, identical to the one on the table. She consulted it for a
      moment. "Four, sir. Not too many in Receiving or being treated,
      either. Slow day."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned and looked steadily at the students once more.
      Annabeth's mouth had opened slightly and Lawrence looked nauseous,
      as if he'd been kicked in the stomach. Harry supplemented the
      effect by shoving one of the parchments in front of him towards the
      pair, with its decoded - and obviously false - message.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">
      <em class="calibre7">THECUPISNOTENOUGHWEMUSTADDTOOURCOLLECTIONIBELIEVETHATMANYITEMSOFGREATPOWERAREHELDINTHETOWERPREPARETHEPLANWESPOKEABOUTBEFOREANDWEWILLCOMMUNICATEWITHTHEABACUS</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The abacuses were used in the clinic to track the flow of
      patients. Harry waited a moment for the magnitude of their mistake
      to sink into the pair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You had some clever ideas. But while the tactics were clever,
      the strategy didn't really make much sense," Harry continued. "You
      were operating at an information deficit, and you <em class="calibre7">knew
      that</em>, and still didn't account for it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But if the abacus is…" Annabeth said, brow furrowing. Harry was
      able to watch her as her thoughts progressed, and he wondered if
      this was what it had been like to deal with himself as a child…
      cleverness and innovation trapped inside of a fishbowl-sized world,
      unable to grasp the limits of their perspective and experience.
      When you can only see a handful of moving parts, the machine of the
      world looked so simple and easy to manipulate. He remembered his
      stumbling horror when he'd been given occasion to see the workings
      laid bare, in all their complexity and danger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, you understand, I see," said Harry. Lawrence's pallor
      looked distinctly yellowish, but he still seemed more confused than
      horrified. Slower on the uptake. Harry addressed himself to
      Annabeth, who was clearly the brains of the operation (such as that
      might be) and the leader of the duo. "So then: it seems as though
      you attempted to murder young Sammy, with whom you've had some
      problems in the past. You've been stunned for about five hours,
      now, and I had a chance to speak to your victim, your Headmistress,
      and Director Diggory of the DMLE."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry closed the book, a little more forcefully than necessary.
      "When I was your age, I took it as a great offense that no one did
      me the courtesy of dealing with me directly unless I forced the
      issue. So then, let me be direct: you have been idiots on a scale
      that you cannot yet fully appreciate. Not only was your plan
      unlikely to work, you thought it was wise to try to use it to frame
      a classmate - a boy who has been involved in some dark dealings
      indeed with the rest of his family, some of whom were expelled for
      their pains, but who didn't do anything wrong here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He stood now, rising and placing both palms on the table in
      front of him, looking down on the two students with cold green
      eyes. "You are said to be 'Silver Slytherins,' but I wonder if that
      little faction of Draco's has turned out to mean anything at all in
      his absence. He told me, once, that it was about the purity of
      truth - that he'd learned that truth was the most important thing,
      even when plotting, since if you didn't know the reality of the
      world then you couldn't <em class="calibre7">affect it</em>, no matter how
      brilliantly effective your plans might otherwise be. That's why you
      need both instrumental rationality - acting based on truth - and
      epistemic rationality - knowing what is true. They are both
      necessary if you want things to happen as you desire."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lawrence had rallied, now. Harry imagined the boy forcing down
      his nausea and searching for an escape. The boy forced himself
      upright in the chair and thrust out his chin, saying, "But that's
      the very reason why we acted… we knew the truth, and wanted to act
      on it. The Meroveni-Bowles are <em class="calibre7">no good</em> and-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you wanted to make your enemy pay for something, even if
      you couldn't make him pay for his real crimes. What was it that
      he'd done, exactly, Mr. Bradwian?" said Harry, and now his voice
      was as cold as his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He and his family tried to kill Turm, just because they were
      ashamed of what their father had done - because they were ashamed
      of their half-brother. They tried to <em class="calibre7">kill</em> him," said
      Lawrence. The boy rose up slightly out of his seat as he spoke,
      taking strength from his indignation. "They stole potion
      ingredients from Hogwarts, from Professor Slughorn's stores and the
      greenhouses, so that they could supply Ragged Rooncrown and his
      Euphoric distribution in Knockturn Alley! They tried to steal Helga
      Hufflepuff's Cup from Smith Manor - and that's wrong, even if it
      turns out <em class="calibre7">you</em> did it, sir! And Sammy tried to kill me in a
      duel when Annabeth and I stopped the Meroveni-Bowles! His sister
      and brother were expelled, but he managed to get out of all the
      trouble for everything, just because they took the blame!" Now he
      was standing, and Harry noticed that Lawrence was actually his same
      height, so that Harry had to stand up straight and stop leaning on
      the table in order to look the boy in the eyes. Maybe he should
      make himself taller. Auror Kwannon had moved to one side and drawn
      her wand, clearing her line of sight, though her wand remained
      casually at her side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lawrence was incensed now, having worked himself up into enough
      outrage to serve as a shield from his shock and fear. The boy's
      clear young eyes were narrowed in anger. He lifted a finger and
      jabbed it in Harry's direction. "And Sammy was never going to die,
      since I was waiting at the bottom of the stairs to catch him with
      <em class="calibre7">Wingardium Leviosa</em>. No one saw that, but veritaserum can
      prove it." He lowered his hand. "I stopped him from falling so
      fast, and I <em class="calibre7">saved his life</em>. But he needed to pay for what
      he's done. I wasn't doing anything but justice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Samuel Meroveni-Bowles comes from an unpleasant family, but he
      has not, to my knowledge, done anything more than get dragged along
      with his older brother and sister and be bullied into helping them
      occasionally. Questioning under veritaserum revealed a scared boy
      in a bad clan trying to muddle his way through… rather a different
      picture than you'd paint in defense of your actions. The child has
      not earned a brutal beating and near-death experience, even if you
      managed to stop yourself short of giving him an execution." Harry
      looked at Lawrence, coldly and with clear contempt. Annabeth had
      leaned forward and buried her face in her hands, and was crying
      quietly. "You are badly in need of a lesson on losing… a lesson I
      once had to learn, as it happens, but one which I have no time to
      teach at the moment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry pushed back his chair and walked to the end of the table,
      where two wands were sitting. He picked up Lawrence's in one hand,
      then looked back at its owner. "To your great good fortune,
      <em class="calibre7">Prior Incantato</em> showed that you did help arrest the
      vicious fall that you caused. And to your even greater fortune, no
      lasting harm appears to have been done. Sammy doesn't remember
      anything. But you are a thuggish young pair, and stupid. You have
      brutalized a boy in an act of vigilantism because you were
      <em class="calibre7">sure</em> he was guilty though you had no proof - the swan song
      of so many thugs, who always manage to make themselves the true
      hero or victim."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lawrence sagged back into his chair, his bravado evaporating
      like the bluff that it was. He stared ahead of himself, and Harry
      knew that consequences and dread were playing out in his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have been bullies - stupid ones. You have brought shame to
      your families and your House and to whatever the Silver Slytherins
      might be, these days, besides a fashionable social club. I want you
      to understand that, Lawrence and Annabeth. Where you're going, you
      will need that understanding. You will need that lesson to make you
      strong."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Annabeth began crying even harder, her shoulders shaking, and
      Lawrence slumped forward, gripping the arms of his chair
      spasmodically. He looked about ready to cry. Harry waited. Not to
      be cruel, but because he knew from experience that it was very
      difficult to change who you were. They needed to sit there with
      bile rising in their throats, tears burning hotly in their eyes,
      seeing their entire futures burning around them… and they needed to
      know that they weren't being oppressed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knew that it was a difficult thing to realize that you'd
      never really been the hero, all along - to know that you were some
      form of lesser villain, deluded and stupid in your villainy -
      somehow even less than the honest evil, since you rewarded yourself
      with misplaced righteousness. Let them see the tears of their
      mothers waiting in the future, the bitter scorn of Headmistress
      McGonagall, the tall walls of Howard Prison.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You will need that lesson, because you are going to help me
      with something," Harry said. "The world is changing quickly these
      days, and a great many very smart people have convinced me that my
      previous strategy hasn't been working…. so you are going to help me
      with a new one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">One constrains the partner's choice by constraining one's
      own behavior,"</em> Schelling had written in <em class="calibre7">The Strategy of
      Conflict</em>. "<em class="calibre7">The object is to set up for one's self and
      communicate persuasively to the other play a mode of behavior
      (including conditional responses to the other's behavior) that
      leaves the other a simple maximization problem whose solution for
      him is the optimum for one's self, and to destroy the other's
      ability to do the same."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">In other words, strategically limit one's own courses of action
      to only allow for the ones you prefer, so your enemy must either
      allow you to move unmolested, or else move against you in one of
      the styles you've chosen for them - since by limiting your own
      available responses, you've limited their ability to provoke you to
      unfavorable action.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are going to join the Honourable, Lawrence and Annabeth,"
      Harry said. He dropped Lawrence's wand on the table. "It was you
      two who helped my people discover where the Cup of Helga Hufflepuff
      was being stored, secretly mewed up in Hepzibah Smith's house after
      her death, so I know you can be of some use. And perhaps now you
      understand your weaknesses in terms of strategy. And maybe in time,
      you might even understand the value of life and the price of pain,
      and why I have dedicated my existence to preserving the one and
      preventing the other."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can't be spies," Lawrence said, dully. He turned to stare at
      Harry. "I'm only fifteen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have good reason to think that your ages will help make you
      <em class="calibre7">excellent</em> spies, in this case, Mr. Bradwian. I have a plot
      in mind to improve the world, or at least one small corner of it,
      and you are an absolutely necessary part of that," said Harry. The
      Dean of the Science Program returned to his seat, where the book
      he'd been reading lay on the table in front of him. "I will give
      you instructions on how to get started. We will not be meeting for
      a while, I'm afraid. Pip will be in touch, though." Harry picked up
      the book again, and opened it back to the page where he'd left off.
      "I'm not asking, of course. But I don't see how my little plot
      could work without you, and with your callous stupidity and
      violence you've forfeited a great deal." He looked down at the
      page, and resumed reading. "I think one day you'll understand, if
      it's any consolation. Goodbye."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Kwannon stepped forward, now, gesturing at Lawrence to get up.
      The boy did, as slowly and gingerly as if he were afraid of
      breaking something. He gently put a hand under Annabeth's elbow,
      and guided her to her feet, as well. She didn't stop crying,
      keeping her face hidden. The auror escorted the children out of the
      room, pausing only to collect their wands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry returned to <em class="calibre7">God-Emperor of Dune</em>, and read quietly
      for some time.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
