<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>46. Significant Digits - Significant Digits Chapter 25: Press Pass, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="46. Significant Digits"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s25" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 25: Press Pass</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I'm not sure what I expected to find in Siegfried's, the
      latest dining establishment in Diagon Alley. It's widely whispered
      that Tower money helped put the gilt on the doorknobs, so to speak,
      but even knowing that, I didn't expect quite the level of opulence
      one finds at this adventurous new experiment in "Muggle fine
      dining." It appears that the Man-Who-Was-the-Boy-Who-Lived spared
      no expense: from your first step to your last bite, Siegfried's is
      an experience in luxury. Such an investment might simply have been
      necessary, since "Muggle" and "fine dining" is almost a
      contradiction in terms. But the Tower, and Mr. Siegfried König,
      seem to be determined to change that by rubbing their wealth in
      your face through Siegfried's well-appointed interiors.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The service was also a study in excellence. The waitstaff
      were courteous and helpful as they explained the odder aspects of
      the meal. Novelties in the vocabulary they employed include: "sous
      vide," "liquid nitrogen," and "emulsifier." The only thing missing
      from their careful explanation was any information whatsoever; I
      still have no idea how my food was prepared, except that some
      manner of Muggle mysticism was involved. I declined a kitchen tour,
      as it sounded dangerous.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">For all that the decorating was ostentatious and the
      explanation of the menu was inane, however, I must admit that the
      food was a revelation of flavor and texture. Even when I didn't
      understand it, I enjoyed it. I tried a chutney that was complex and
      rich, but balanced perfectly with quail eggs in a bed of a squash
      paste. I found that it was…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Excerpted from "New 'Muggle Restaurant' Opens Its Doors in
      Britain," by Sylvia de Kamp in <em class="calibre7">American Mage.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Margaret Bulstrode pushed open the door to Billie's Bobbing
      Bubbies with some distaste. Just touching the greenish metal handle
      made her feel dirty, and the scene inside didn't make her feel much
      better. A corpulent man with pointed ears was standing at the front
      counter, paging through the thick catalogue of the memories on
      offer, while the balding woman who was working there was digging
      under her fingernails with the pointed tip of a decorative glass
      stopper from a nearby phial. A very pale man with lank grey hair
      completed the scene, sitting at one of the small tables in the
      waiting area and eating from a ludicrously large bowl of apples 'n
      onions - the smell of which was filling the room with cloying
      sweetness. Everything seemed like it was covered with a thin film
      of filth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Yuck.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Margaret didn't say anything to any of the three people, but
      only continued on straight to the little bobbing rooms. Three of
      them had closed doors, indicating that they were occupied, but a
      fourth had a crude sign fixed to it: OUT OF ORDER. She opened it
      anyway, and closed it behind her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As promised, there was no Pensieve inside, only a swoop-armed
      Art Noveau chair with a threadbare cushion, and an empty metal rack
      where the magical device had once stood. Margaret gathered up the
      folds of her robe - it was a nice once, too, all fresh with sharp
      folds - and gingerly sat down on the chair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She waited almost a full minute. The Goddess was in Knockturn
      Alley, and Margaret needed to be careful of her. She wasn't doing
      anything <em class="calibre7">wrong</em>, necessarily, but… one could never tell. In
      fact, Margaret had seen the glamorous villainess herself just ten
      minutes ago when she was on her way to Billie's: Hermione Granger
      had been with her gang of thugs, harassing some poor shopkeeper The
      sighting had so rattled Margaret that she'd been stumbling over her
      feet the entire rest of the walk here, and very nearly went
      tumbling in an undignified fashion after tripping on some hidden
      edge of the road a few minutes later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But no one else entered the establishment, so it appeared she
      hadn't been followed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Freedom from tyrants, the strength of individuality, and the
      traditions of wizardkind," she said. She spoke quietly, as though
      to the air, and braced herself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The chair trembled underneath her, and then with a violent jerk
      it flipped itself backwards. It pivoted as though fixed in the air,
      and her legs flew up and she tumbled over, and she gasped in alarm
      (every time!). But rather than being deposited on the floor just
      behind the chair, Margaret was sliding back into a space that
      hadn't been there before, and in a trice she was dropped gently
      onto a wooden platform at the end of a long hallway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She caught her breath and fixed her robes and hair. For some
      reason the process had a tendency to lodge the back edge of your
      robe inside the waistband of your pants or knickers, so it paid to
      take a moment and collect yourself. Margaret suspected that was a
      subtlety of Draco's devising. He called the password to enter
      (freedom, strength, traditions) a "priming process," saying that it
      was good to remind yourself of your goals every time you set to
      work, and she couldn't help but imagine that it suited his
      inscrutable purposes to discomfit every visitor's clothing, as
      well, to prime them for being embarrassed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once she was ready, Margaret took a deep breath and walked to
      the end of the hall, making her face bold and her step even bolder.
      Confidence could carry you far. She pushed through the door, and
      stopped just within. Not quite striking a pose, but just an
      entrance moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She needn't have bothered. No Draco, no Narcissa, no
      Shacklebolt. Just that wretched Muggle-lover Edgar Erasmus, the
      insufferably priggish auror Gregor Nimue, that American writer
      whose name Margaret couldn't remember, and some boy she'd never
      met. No one she really needed to impress…</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">No, no… that's Stupid Slytherin thinking. A Silver Slytherin
      doesn't turn up her nose at any chance to cultivate power, no
      matter what "sort" of person is their potential ally</em>, she
      thought, admonishing herself. It was a weird way of thinking,
      almost unnatural: an entirely different level. Beyond dominating or
      controlling people, even beyond fooling them… searching for the
      utility of each person, regardless of their inferiorities. A pure
      Slytherin, a true Slytherin in the tradition of the old heirs of
      that house, they knew that the important thing was to <em class="calibre7">win</em>.
      Everything else was a hobby.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hullo," Margaret said to the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nimue didn't bother to rise from his chair, but only glanced up
      at her and nodded. He was sitting at the long and narrow table that
      dominated the room, and had seven parchments arrayed in front of
      him, neatly, so that they were all visible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Erasmus, who was sitting next to Nimue, was a little more
      polite. He rose to his feet and inclined his head to her.
      "Margaret."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The writer - Sylvia de Kamp! that was her name! - was sitting
      with the boy at the other end of the table, and didn't appear to
      notice her entrance, keeping her eyes fixed on the young man. The
      boy had his back to Margaret, and he turned just enough so that she
      could see his face (handsome, with beautiful skin and a look of
      misery) before returning his attention to Sylvia. She was a
      beautiful but cold-looking woman, with no charm to her tight blonde
      bun or sharp cheekbones.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Margaret glanced around the room. A Floo chimney was along one
      wall, installed illegally and at great expense on a private
      network. A stuffed owl resided on the mantle above, next to a jar
      of Floo Powder. A sofa and a pair of chairs sat before it, all
      upholstered in the most luxuriously soft bicorn leather. A narrow
      hole was visible in the ceiling above the chairs, where a simple
      covered pipe up to the roof could admit owls. All along another
      wall, to her left and right, were stacked wooden boxes. They must
      contain the latest edition of <em class="calibre7">Unbreakable Honour</em>, waiting
      for Narcissa to arrange the shipping.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Edgar," said Margaret, approaching the big, red-haired man. She
      straightened her posture slightly, putting her shoulders back as
      she folded her hands into her sleeves. "Is Kingsley here? I brought
      two more Time-Turners, but I'm only supposed to give them to
      him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Erasmus settled back into his seat, shaking his head as he did
      so. He was in sleeveless potioneer robes. "No, he's not. Two of my
      people are in the laboratory, and Gem is making Euphoric down the
      hall." He gestured at the door to the hall, on the other side of
      the room. "I'm glad he's not here, he'd just be bothering me. Leave
      the Turners with… oh, with Gregor, or someone." He nodded his head
      to indicate the Tower auror sitting beside him. "No, he is
      assisting me… just give those here, then." He held out a large
      florid hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Erasmus was well-built and supposedly brilliant, but couldn't
      really sort out where he stood on a lot of important things…
      Muggles, most of all. He talked a good game about the natural
      order, but he was also always neck-deep into some Muggle book or
      other (or sometimes two or three books, Muggle and magical both,
      while he muttered and made notes). Draco might also use science,
      but you didn't have to worry about <em class="calibre7">his</em> loyalties. Erasmus…
      well, he just only seemed to care about the bastardized magical
      research he did with science in his little crypto-alchemical
      laboratory here.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, sorry. I can't do that. No reflection on you, of course,
      Edgar, but orders are orders," Margaret said, smiling
      apologetically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco didn't tolerate that sort of rank stupidity. Not that he'd
      do anything really terrible to her, but he wouldn't ever trust her
      again if she was so cavalier about such things. And his anger could
      be terrible… she'd heard rumors of punishments to traitors. The
      Windowpain Curse, for example. A victim who looked at the black
      square of a window at night - any window, any night - would be
      cursed to always see an apparition looking back at him: a pale,
      wide-eyed face with large and sharp teeth, staring back at him from
      the darkness. Nothing more… but always that. She couldn't imagine
      who'd come up with that… what sort of person would even think that
      way. Just <em class="calibre7">hearing</em> about that one had made her afraid to
      open the curtains at night.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Erasmus shrugged and placed his hand back on the table. Nimue
      just glanced up and smirked, then returned his gaze to the
      parchments. Margaret stepped over behind the two, to look between
      them at the subject of their interest. "Research, Edgar?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Looking for a pattern in seeming miscellanea," said Erasmus.
      "Trying to… verify, shall we say." He glanced over at the
      miserable-looking boy. The boy didn't look over.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Report from the Office of the Tower Ombudsman</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Our office has determined that by far the largest
      vulnerability, flaw, or weakness in the Tower continues to be the
      reliance on a single figurehead and leader, Harry
      Potter-Evans-Verres. While his prestige and reputation remain one
      of the driving forces behind the popularity of Tower programs and
      initiatives, in addition to their own dramatic results and merits,
      he represents what Security Director Alastor Moody said in an
      interview was a "single point of failure."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">We also have...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Margaret, surprised to see an internal memo rather than some
      obscure line of research, looked to another parchment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Memorandum from Councilor Regulus Hig of the Mystical and
      Benevolent Council of Westphalia</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Mr. Potter:</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Hope you are well. Have checked on your question re number
      of wizards with certain groups here. Numbers attached. Please note
      they bear out my argument. Many generations of wizards have moved
      to Britain over past centuries, draining blood and talent from
      elsewhere. Must be effect, not the other way around, given last
      years immigration numbers (attached, next sheet). Seems clear that
      my reasoning stands; in final agreement, Tower will endow chairs at
      RI and SWI. Partial compensation for generations of drain. Yes?
      Please reply.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Re representative: not sure who to trust with proxy these
      days. Limpel had maybe dozen in her org, or more. A dozen total now
      have turned up with minds wiped. Would suggest distance
      collaboration, but understand Tower protocol prevents
      communication. Will think on it.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Be well</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Reg</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The string of numbers that followed was rather beyond her
      curiosity's scope. She'd never been forced to take Arithmancy,
      thank Merlin, since she graduated the year before it became
      mandatory. Millicent wouldn't stop complaining about it, a few
      years ago.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She glanced over at the next parchment, frowning. What was all
      this?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Harry:</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Quick note on where we are.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">No good results from Hopkirk. She says it's not a problem of
      obscurity, but that there's just too many results. Three is a
      number of power. There were three witches who were famous Scottish
      seers in the sixteenth century, there were three Peverell brothers
      and three Deathly Hallows, the ancient Greek Herpo found three ways
      to hide from murder, there were three towers of Atlantis in legend…
      Too many threes. Hopkirk will keep looking, but says it could mean
      anything. I don't think you should rely on much insight until we
      have more details.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Some descriptions of the transportation magic described by
      Hermione. Väinämöinen wrote about a horse of flame was used to bear
      brave warriors to the battlefield. Not sure if any wards can be
      devised without more details and experimentation. Right now,
      Tineagar or whoever could pop right into Howard or Hogwarts or
      Whitehall.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I'll work more on this, and get back to Tuesday. This feels
      unfair, though… piled on top of Malfoy and his stupid Honourable.
      Hope Hermione knocks them off their high horse.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Cedric</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Goddess is after us now… for real? Like, she's done
      swanning about the world and having people kiss her ring? Is that
      why she's here?" Margaret asked with rising alarm. She believed in
      the cause and all that, but she'd already been through one
      interrogation. She wasn't interested in repeating the experience…
      Mad-Eye Moody shouting at her and demanding she confess to helping
      with the Diagon Alley bombing, always acting just crazy enough that
      you had to wonder if he might <em class="calibre7">snap</em> if you didn't just
      confess... Margaret shuddered. Thank Merlin for Amycus Carrow,
      who'd been by her side the entire time. Pervy, but effective.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She's here?" asked Erasmus, looking up at her again. "In
      London?" Even Nimue was paying attention to her now, and Sylvia and
      the boy with whom she was speaking had stopped their conversation
      and were staring.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She's here in <em class="calibre7">Knockturn</em>," said Margaret. "She
      was-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You little fool," snarled Nimue, leaping to his feet. "You
      didn't think to say?!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Erasmus gathered all the parchments up into a bundle, knocking
      the table violently as he stood up. "Gregor, why didn't you
      <em class="calibre7">know</em> about this?!" He opened his robes, but before he
      could stuff the parchments inside, Nimue snatched them away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shut up! They don't tell me everything… not when they're
      suspicious!" said Nimue in an angry hiss, folding the parchments up
      and drawing his wand. At the other end of the table, Sylvia had
      drawn her own, and she and the boy were both standing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My research!" cried Erasmus, bustling over to the door to the
      hall and disappearing. A clatter of beakers soon sounded from that
      direction, as the worried researcher rushed to save his work.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But she's not knocking at the door or anything," said Margaret,
      upset by the reaction. She took a step back, and drew her wand,
      although she wasn't sure why. "She's just in Knockturn, why do you
      think-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What other bloody reason would the Goddess have for coming to
      Knockturn but to look for <em class="calibre7">us?</em>" demanded Nimue. "It's not
      even a question - can't believe <em class="calibre7">you're</em> even allowed <em class="calibre7">in
      here</em>, what is Draco <em class="calibre7">thinking?</em>!" He turned to Sylvia.
      "Get going! Take Lawrence and finish the damn interview later!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The American writer was already pulling the boy towards the
      hearth, almost dragging him by wrist. She whispered her definition,
      but had time enough to shoot Margaret a look of contempt before the
      pair were gone in a burst of green flame.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I think you're over-reacting," said Margaret helplessly.
      "How would she even-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was at Azkaban when Hermione Granger broke it like a child's
      toy!" snapped Nimue, darting over to one of the crates along the
      wall and snatching up a satchel that was sitting on it. "She has
      <em class="calibre7">died and come back</em> and she is <em class="calibre7">not human</em>. Do you
      know the <em class="calibre7">stories</em> they tell in the DMLE? One of the Weasley
      idiots saw her put that author fellow - Lockhart - saw her put him
      through a wall with her bare hands, after she found out some
      nastiness he'd been up to. A <em class="calibre7">Hogwarts</em> wall!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gilderoy Lockhart? But he's not in any trouble… he just
      published-" stammered Margaret.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why am I even wasting time with you! Stay and risk your neck,
      it's…" Nimue trailed off as he saw the stuffed owl on the chimney
      mantle start to flap its wings and hoot. Without another word, the
      Tower auror leapt to the hearth, and was gone in his own flash of
      green flame.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Edgar!" called out Margaret. "The owl!" She didn't wait for a
      reply, but just concentrated on the three Ds. Let the idiot and
      those stupid Euphoric-makers fend for themselves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Godric's Hollow,</em> she thought, clearly and with force.
      Then she tapped herself on the head with the curious wiggle motion
      of Apparition.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Oh, Merlin, there's wards. They've locked it down with an
      Anti-Disapparition Jinx.</em> She turned to the chimney. That was
      the way out, no matter what wards… that was it's whole purpose.
      "Edgar!" she shrieked, running over to the chimney. "She's really
      <em class="calibre7">here</em>!" She snatched a handful of Floo Powder from the jar
      on the mantel, and threw it into the fire, which turned
      emerald.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Borgin and Burkes," she said, and stepped into the flames.
      She'd go to the other hide-out and escape from there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They cut us off!" said Erasmus from behind her. "Oh… oh… what…
      oh…," he stammered. She turned to see the big wizard charging
      across the room, awkwardly bundling three big boxes as he went. A
      fourth box followed him, floating along by flapping transparent
      silvery wings. "We'll have to use the owl-bolt," he said, peering
      up at the narrow passage. She stepped out of the flames.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Three other men burst into the room from the same door Erasmus
      had used. She recognized Geoffrey Gem and his two cronies: the
      suppliers of local Euphorics. Gem was a rail-thin man with terrible
      teeth - all snaggly and yellow - and thinning hair. Each of the
      three potioneers had a smock on and was carrying a clinking crate
      of phials. "Hold up, Eggy!" called Gem.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Erasmus put down his boxes and pointed his wand at the narrow
      hole meant for owls. "We're going, Geoff," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a loud booming sound, as though someone up in Billie's
      Bouncing Bubbies had knocked over a heavy piece of furniture.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just need to take down the wards, then we can punch out through
      the roof," said Erasmus, concentrating. His already reddish
      complexion turned downright scarlet as he worked, and sweat was
      visible on his brow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was another heavy boom from upstairs. Margaret found that
      she was clutching her wand so tightly that her fingers ached, and
      forced herself to relax. "Hurry, Edgar!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"These aren't <em class="calibre7">supposed</em> to be easy to take down," he
      snapped, but he gritted his teeth and squinted as he worked even
      harder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They can't get in here for hours… hours of magic to stop them
      from burning in," mewled Gem. Margaret almost laughed in his
      face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a third boom, and this one not only echoed in the room
      with an accompanying shattering sound as something broke, but the
      furniture actually shifted. Margaret turned to face the entry door.
      "That sounded like-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The center of the door cracked as something hit it from the
      other side, the wood splitting from top to bottom. One of Gem's
      assistants dropped a crate, and it hit the ground with a crash of
      breaking glass. "Oh Merlin," the man said, swaying in place. The
      rich and sweet smell of shrivelfig filled the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was another crashing sound, and a golden fist appeared,
      spearing out through the door and sending chips of wood into the
      air. It opened and seized one side of the broken door, and then
      thick golden fingers pulled until Margaret heard the metal of
      hinges squeal and give way. The remains of the door fell apart and
      open, and the Goddess stepped through. She wore a golden gauntlet
      on her left hand, and wielded her wand in her right. The metal of
      the gauntlet glinted brightly, like it was forged from sunlight. It
      looked very dangerous. She was flanked by a scowling, short witch
      and a buxom, taller one, both of whom were also wearing golden
      gauntlets, and a spectacled man who looked a bit scared. A floating
      Quotes Quill followed the man.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Edgar," said the Goddess. "We need to talk."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
