<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter Seventh Horcrux - Seventh Horcrux Chapter 1: HP vs Childhood, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter Seventh Horcrux"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1: HP vs Childhood</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Seventh Horcrux</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span>Chapter 1: Harry Potter vs. Childhood</span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">I am Lord Voldemort, and I was one step away from conquering
      Wizarding Britain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">October 31st, 1981 began as a fairly normal day – arranging
      raids, crucioing incompetents, lazing about on my throne – yet it
      seemed that everything my followers did irked me.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix crouched at my feet, sneaking glances and occasionally
      emitting dreamy sighs – exactly the sort of behavior that caused me
      to turn myself into a nose-less snake. Rabastan Lestrange was
      playing a game called Curse the Recruits, the recruits were
      screaming, Nott was paging through one of my Dark tomes, and Lucius
      had disappeared to go brush his hair or something. There were worse
      ways to spend Halloween, I supposed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"M-my Lord!" a nasally voice cried, its owner scurrying towards
      my throne. "I have information on the Potters."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I paused for a moment, contemplating the Death Eater's words.
      The Potters were Dumbledore's minions, the ones with the prophesied
      child. They'd defied me three times. I should know; I keep a list
      of these things.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Speak quickly, then," I snapped, "I don't like to be kept
      waiting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The short Death Eater cowered at my feet, and I noted that he
      was particularly talented at cowering.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "I'm s-s-sorry, my lord. I've gained their trust, as you ordered me
      to, and I can tell you that…" – he took a shuddering breath – "the
      Potters may be found at Godric's Hallow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He rattled off the proper address, stumbling over every other
      word. The man was clearly incompetent, but he had been useful.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I said, "I am immensely pleased with this information…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What was his name again? I narrowed my eyes at the still
      shivering man's unremarkable, brown hair. That was the trouble with
      giving all your followers masks. They all looked so
      <em class="calibre8">similar.</em> After a moment of silence, I murmured, "My
      faithful servant."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, my l-lord," he simpered, bowing again and again. By
      the fifth time, I'd become peeved and, with an idle flick of my
      wand, slammed him into the stones.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are dismissed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The bleeding man stumbled from the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Seizing the opportunity to escape my followers, I gracefully
      rose to my feet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I shall be busy for some time. Do not kill any of your fellow
      Death Eaters without my permission" – I sternly eyed Bellatrix –
      "We hardly need a repetition of last Valentine's Day."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix bowed her head sullenly. "Yes, my lord."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a moment, she perked up. This was almost certainly a bad
      thing. "May I help you dispose of the blood traitors, my lord?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her dark eyes widened and she batted them at me. Disgusting.
      Bellatrix looked almost like a little child begging for a puppy.
      Observing the manic grin twitching to life on her face, I resolved
      to never again use Bellatrix and the word puppy together in the
      same sentence</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," I said a touch too quickly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Clearing my throat, I clarified, "This is a simple mission for
      I, the Dark Lord Voldemort. Your addition would be
      unnecessary."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I turned away from my pouting follower. Bellatrix was a
      wonderful asset: loyal, powerful, and bloodthirsty. Yet her
      eagerness could be grating. I walked quickly down the gloomy
      hallway, swept through the heavy door, and – my ears popping as I
      exited the wards – apparated mid-stride.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I appeared in the middle of a quiet street in the village known
      as Godric's Hollow. I had been here once or twice before to observe
      Dumbledore's residence. Know thy enemy and all that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was still fairly early in the night and a few
      trick-or-treaters wandered between houses. They stole glances at me
      and my, to quote them, bloody brilliant costume.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">None of them so much as glanced at one particular cottage,
      though smoke drifted from its chimney. Considering children and
      their gluttonous fixation on candy, I could only presume I'd found
      the correct address.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I didn't bother with the subtle approach. In a moment, the door
      was blasted off its hinges and the screaming had started. Again,
      I'd like to stress that this had, so far, been a perfectly normal
      day.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The father was quickly dispatched, and I merrily climbed the
      staircase, following the hysterical sobs of mother and child. I'd
      never considered myself a violent man, but there is a certain
      satisfaction in winning, even if my opponents are severely
      outmatched. So what if I liked to draw it out a bit?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Potter woman flung her arms out in a pitiful shield. She
      looked feral, eyes wide, limbs shaking. "Not Harry! Please, no, not
      Harry. I'll do anything!" she cried.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I offered her a chance to live because, contrary to popular
      belief, I can be nice. I'm also quite the conversationalist when my
      companion isn't trying to lick my boots. Seriously, who does that?
      But I digress.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Potter woman had finally used up my patience, and I killed
      her with an Avada Kedavra. I laughed, the sound nearly drowning out
      the baby's sobs. So this was the child of prophecy, was it?
      Pathetic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Avada Kedavra," I said. The baby watched the spell curiously.
      He screamed, I cackled, and the room turned green.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Suddenly, I experienced a sensation that felt suspiciously like
      dying horribly and lost consciousness. My memory of the next few
      years is rather confused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That day – October 31st, 1981 – marked the end of my reign and
      of the First Wizarding War. It also began my second life. This
      time, I was going to do things a bit differently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I am Harry Potter, former Dark Lord.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">In retrospect, I have absolutely no idea how Horcruxes work.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I probably shouldn't have made one, let alone five, based on
      only three paragraphs of description which mainly centering on the
      mechanics of the ritual and not the effects. But I had limited
      access to the Restricted Section, at the time, and I was a very
      enthusiastic youth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I had originally assumed that they would make my body
      invulnerable, but that was clearly not the case.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Perhaps they bound me to the world, allowing me to possess those
      weaker than myself. Obviously, the Potter child had succumbed to my
      greater force of will. I supposed that made as much sense as
      anything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On that note, what about the prophecy? This would be easier if I
      knew it in its entirety. It was possible that I'd already fulfilled
      the blasted thing. My body was incinerated by my reflected spell.
      Did that count as being vanquished? I was Harry Potter, now, and I
      could hardly vanquish myself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">My questions would go unanswered for some time.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The Dursleys immediately sensed my evil. This was particularly
      impressive since I took several months to properly remember my time
      as a dark lord, yet they deemed me a monster upon arriving on their
      doorstep.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amid the humiliation of diaper changes, tentative steps, and
      lisping words, I took great satisfaction in my caretakers' building
      horror. Even as a baby, I could still strike fear into the hearts
      of filthy muggles.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It started small as I relearned the art of wandless magic.
      Forget to feed little Harry and Dudley's bottle explodes. Insult
      him and your tongue starts to swell up. Go ahead, lock him in a
      cupboard. He will <em class="calibre8">always</em> find his way out, and you will
      somehow find your way in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even misfortunes that could not possibly be my fault, such as
      Vernon's demotion at work, were attributed to my malice. I, of
      course, never argued against anything that made me seem more
      powerful.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Dursleys eventually decided that they feared my dark
      presence more than Dumbledore's threats. They dropped me off at the
      orphanage, the firehouse, and deep in the wilderness. They even
      called Child Protective Services on themselves. Repeatedly. Yet I
      was always back by morning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I blame Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I was five years old when Petunia Dursley realized that she
      would never be rid of me. I know this because she began sobbing
      while insisting that she would never be rid of me.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Thick as they were, the Dursleys eventually realized that the
      only way to live unharmed was to accommodate my desires. It was the
      childhood I had always dreamed of.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">During those early years, I had a lot of time to think.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From a few expeditions into the Wizarding World, I cobbled
      together the state of things. I had obviously vanished, and my
      followers had either been arrested or rejected me. Meanwhile,
      everyone believed that Harry Potter was an amazing and incredibly
      talented child (a not inaccurate belief).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I'll admit that I'd grown weary of being a Dark Lord. It was
      boring, the Death Eaters were annoying, and I had no particular
      interest in reigning over a nation of mindless sheep. There was a
      certain charm to fighting against Dumbledore – the wily fool – and
      murder is a good stress-reliever. But perhaps it was time to
      discard my previous life. This new identity could open doors that
      my previous self had foolishly closed long ago.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was time to return to my first dream:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Teaching.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">To be honest, I hadn't planned on the whole Dark Lord thing. It
      just sort of happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I'd always wanted to be a professor, either of Defense Against
      the Dark Arts or just of the Dark Arts. The latter wasn't exactly
      taught at Hogwarts, however, and Hogwarts was my first true home.
      My greatest desire was to return to it and live there. Forever.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With my original Horcruxes created and hidden away, I might have
      become as much a fixture of the school as poor, idiotic Binns. That
      dream was crushed by Dumbledore. His first official act as
      Headmaster was to deny me the position. After a very strenuous job
      interview, I might add. Offended and heartbroken, I cursed the DADA
      post and stormed out of the castle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So there I was: depressed, unemployed, and increasingly
      intoxicated. I slumped across the Hog's Head's bar, accompanied by
      a few of my old Slytherin buddies. We were reminiscing, telling
      racist jokes, and complaining about all the Muggleborns stealing
      our jobs. At some point, we got onto the topic of the abysmal
      education provided by Hogwarts. Turning away a young, eager,
      intelligent – if slightly evil – job applicant showed a startling
      lack of foresight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Kids nowadays don't know anything," I slurred. "I bet the six
      of us could take out every one of the half-wits they're graduating
      and show them exactly how much they suck at defending against the
      Dark Arts. Then they'd <em class="calibre8">have</em> to hire me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That's the last thing I remember of that night.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few days later, I woke up in an alley with a pounding
      headache. By the time I'd gotten home and downed a hangover potion,
      <em class="calibre8">The Prophet</em> had arrived. In my drunken haze, I'd killed
      six Ministry workers and declared myself the Dark Lord Voldemort (I
      never would have picked that name had I been sober).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once you've done something like that, it's exceedingly difficult
      to get a job around children. I know. I tried.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The next several years were spent struggling to legitimize my
      movement. I commissioned uniforms, made inquiries with Europe's
      darker creatures, cobbled together an ideological banner with which
      to rally new recruits...Recreating the Dark Mark alone took me
      nearly six months. Natural genius aside, I have no idea how I
      managed that while smashed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">My power base was entrenched in the Pureblood, Slytherin alumni
      as my drinking companions benefitted greatly from convincing their
      allies to join me. Not only were they tied to my will with dark
      magic, but they were also desperate to cover up the details of our
      drunken escapade. An embarrassment like that would be a crippling
      blow to their rapidly declining oligarchy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In retrospect, the situation could have been worse. I might have
      joined forces with dozens of pompous fools and admitted cowards,
      but at least I was their leader and therefore best.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">I stroked the parchment of my Hogwarts letter with fondness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The youngest Dursley nearly wet himself at the deranged smile on
      my face. That was an expression usually reserved for our little
      "chats" (These usually involved quite a bit more screaming than
      chatting. Still, I always healed him at the end, so it's not like
      he has anything to complain about).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">My "loving" relatives were more than happy to ship me off to
      Hogwarts where I would be far, far away from them. The desire was
      mutual. Even with training, the three were barely tolerable.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">If I'd known the scar would be this much trouble, I would have
      worn a hat. I slammed the door shut on a particularly persistent
      fan. Sure, I liked groveling as much as the next dark lord, but for
      a stranger to actually try and kiss my robes? Honestly! Whatever
      happened to keeping a respectful, reverent distance?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wandlessly locking the door of the shabby, silent shop, I took a
      moment to catch my breath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good afternoon," a voice murmured. I practically jumped out of
      my skin. How in Merlin's name had he snuck up on me?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Ollivander," I said to the pale eyed, elderly man. Nearly
      fifty years had passed since I'd last seen him, yet he hadn't aged
      a day. Clearly I wasn't the only immortal wizard in Britain. I
      quashed the urge to ask him how he'd done it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, yes. I thought I'd be seeing you soon. Harry Potter." He
      spoke my name with a strange emphasis.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While I pondered the wandmaker's dark secrets, the man chattered
      inanely about nothing in particular. His mask of absentminded
      insanity was admirable. He handed me one wand and another and
      another still. Before I could even give them a wave, he snatched
      them from my hand. He proceeded to do this with every wand in the
      bloody shop. If I hadn't been certain he'd taken precautions
      against such paltry attacks, I might have stabbed him with one of
      his wares. I was Lord Voldemort, for Merlin's sake! I could easily
      force the cooperation of even an unsuitable wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An unsettling glint appeared in Ollivander's silvery eyes.
      Mumbling to himself, he dug out a holly wand. It hummed beneath my
      fingertips, warm to the touch. Unconsciously, I smiled at the
      familiar sensation and swung the wand around in a rain of colorful
      sparks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wrapping it up, he muttered. "Curious…curious…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I was beginning to suspect something was curious. I inquired,
      with careful politeness, "Curious?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Curious," he agreed. He rambled on about my wand for some time
      before finally coming to a point. "It is very curious indeed that
      you should be destined for this wand when its brother – why, its
      brother gave you that scar."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What a coincidence," I squeaked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He stared at me intently, and I could feel my stomach drop. He
      knew. I could see it in his watchful eyes, the taunting tilt of his
      head. Ollivander knew exactly who I was or, more precisely, who I
      wasn't. My gaze darted to the wrapped wand in his hand. If I was
      fast, I could probably grab it, kill him, and run in a minute,
      maybe less. I'd have preferred to avoid murder for a few more
      years, but desperate times call for desperate measures.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Seemingly unaware of my frantic thoughts, Ollivander continued,
      "I think we must expect great things from you, Mr. Potter…After
      all, He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named did great things – terrible, yes, but
      great."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">…Was he supporting me? That sounded suspiciously like a
      compliment. I said, "Thank you, sir, for the help."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anytime, Harry Potter," the man rasped.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Stepping into the train station as the Dursleys' car squealed
      away, I had never been happier. I was returning to Hogwarts, and it
      had been far too long since I'd been home.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">A/N: I've posted this previously on Space Battles (under
      the same username, in fact). I've moved this edited version over
      here since it's a more permanent and easily-found location. Though
      I appreciate people who seek to defend my literary honor, please,
      my dearest darlings, do not accuse me of plagiarizing my own
      work.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">For first time readers: I wholly believe that this story
      improves with time. Scenes (and years) get longer, characters
      better settle into their skins, and plotlines diverge more from
      canon.<br class="calibre4"/></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">It's been a great delight writing this and a far greater
      one sharing it with you all. Enjoy.</strong></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
