<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter Seventh Horcrux - Seventh Horcrux Chapter 13: HP vs Dolores Umbridge (Pt 3), a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter Seventh Horcrux"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s13" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 13: HP vs Dolores Umbridge (Pt 3)</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Seventh Horcrux</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Chapter 7: Harry Potter vs. Dolores Umbridge (Pt. 3)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It took some time to dislodge Fawkes from Umbridge and clean up
      the freshly-spilled cauldron of Felix Felicis. The whole process
      would have gone a lot quicker if the Inquisitorial Squad hadn't
      just stood by and laughed. At least our traitor, Edgecomb, had the
      excuse that she was trying to hide her pimply face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Umbridge adjusted her badly-shredded robes. "Hem hem."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Professor?" I asked, distracted by the phoenix digging its
      claws into my shoulder and hissing at Umbridge. Apparently, he
      liked her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Umbridge said, "Would you like to explain, Mr. Potter, just what
      all of this is?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We weren't learning anything in class, so we decided to form a
      study group. We call it the Defense Against the Dark Arts Study
      Group for Not Failing Our OWLs. Or the DADASGNF OWLs for
      short."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Most of us call it the DA," Ginevra chirped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unfortunately, that's as many letters as they can remember," I
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Umbridge smiled tightly. "I suppose I'm not surprised at this
      behavior from you, Mr. Potter. As I'm <em class="calibre8">certain</em> you know,
      this subversive organization goes against <em class="calibre8">several</em> of the
      High Inquisitor's proclamations."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you talking about yourself in the third person? I think
      that's the first sign of insanity," I said. I never do that when
      talking about myself. Or any of my other selves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She continued, lips pinched, "…nor has it gained my
      approval…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"According to school rules, it has," I interrupted. "As your
      apprentice and therefore teaching assistant, I am allowed to
      schedule additional classes for struggling students. Which, due to
      your complete dearth of talent in the realm of teaching, is all of
      them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Umbridge gave a breathy little sigh. "Mr. Potter, regardless of
      your <em class="calibre8">worrying</em> delusions, you are not my apprentice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"See, that's where you're wrong. Hermione?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione glanced up from her place hunched over the library's
      table. "There are actually several passages in the Hogwarts
      Rulebook which ensure that professors cannot overburden their
      charges with out-of-class work. This includes writing assignments,
      such as those served during your detentions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We passed the allowable point for a normal student months ago.
      In fact, I warned you that, if you gave me one more detention, I
      would be your apprentice. And then you did that. According to
      magic, that's consent."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is!" Ginevra enthusiastically agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's completely ridiculous," Umbridge hissed. "You can't just
      create an apprenticeship without anyone knowing about it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, of course not," I said. "That would be silly. However,
      everyone here hates you because you're an awful person. I tried to
      fix that, but, upon consultation with my companions, I have come to
      the baffling conclusion that you just don't care. 'Everyone'
      luckily includes Albus Dumbledore, who signed off on my
      apprenticeship."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Umbridge giggled, a deeply unsettling sound. "So the headmaster
      <em class="calibre8">is</em> involved in this illicit –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I growled in annoyance, Fawkes echoing the noise. "No, it's me.
      Entirely me. Dumbledore will not steal my credit for this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginevra laid a hand on my empty, and therefore less dangerous,
      shoulder. "Also, it's technically on the up-and-up, since Harry's
      your apprentice, and you haven't forbidden him from doing
      anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Umbridge's eyes gleamed, reminding me uncomfortably of
      Dumbledore. "In that case, you're no longer allowed to lead this
      little group of yours."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As my master, you have the right to give me that order," I
      acknowledged. "And I have the right to pass on leadership to
      <em class="calibre8">my</em> apprentice, Neville Longbottom. Neville?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville grinned. "I'd be glad to. Thanks for the vote of
      confidence."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shrugged. "We've only got a month left before OWLs. How much
      damage could you do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"An idiot like that," Malfoy drawled. "You'd be surprised."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville raised his sword menacingly. I gestured for him to stand
      down. "Don't worry. He's only saying that because he's in love with
      Hermione."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione and Malfoy squawked in indignation, then glared at each
      other for daring to do so at the same moment. Young love: I'll
      never understand it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Umbridge's face slowly grew pink as we ignored her. She cried,
      "I'm disbanding this group this instant!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can do that," I said. "The real question is: Would that be
      a good decision <em class="calibre8">for you</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After the sixth time, it seemed that Umbridge had finally come
      to recognize when I'd set a trap for her. She raised her eyebrows.
      "What, precisely, does that mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">You</em> are also technically a member of the DADASGNF
      OWLs. I'm still not entirely sure how Ginevra got your signature,
      but it's on the same contract as Edgecomb's," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Edgecomb peaked up at us, revealing the word SNEAK written
      across her face. "I'm sorry. I didn't mean to…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I raised a hand to silence her. "Therefore, your betrayal will
      be met with the same consequences, along with whatever Hermione has
      added during this conversation…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm thirteen punishments in, but I'm still working on the loss
      of magic clause," Hermione said. Ron handed her another inkwell,
      and she stopped writing for a moment to smile at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You really expect me to believe that a fifteen-year-old girl
      managed this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sixteen," Ginevra corrected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I learned a great deal from the Goblet of Fire. Also, the
      Ravenclaws helped," Hermione said. Edgecomb whimpered, burying her
      face in her hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron said, "I think she's done with the squib part."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Umbridge paled. "I shall not allow –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would be careful about what you say next," I advised her.
      "I'm not certain what Hermione's definition of 'betrayal' is, but I
      have no doubt that the results will be disturbing to us all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She's bloody scary, sometimes," Ron said, a goofy grin on his
      face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Umbridge finally acknowledged defeat. "How do I get out of
      it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's no way out once your signature is on the contract,
      since it was signed with your blood," Hermione said thoughtfully.
      "Of course, it only has so extensive of a range."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Umbridge's nose wrinkled as if she'd tasted something sour.
      "Fine. I'll leave Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, it's not that small. You'd need to go to the Continent, at
      least" – Fawkes squawked angrily, and Hermione continued –
      "Although I might have overpowered it a bit. Staying out of Europe
      would be safest."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I smirked. "You should probably go. There's a clause which
      allows Hermione to activate the betrayal clause at any time, and
      she, like Dumbledore, hates you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fawkes accompanied Umbridge on her way out, screeching and
      scratching all the way.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">After the Inquisitorial Squad departed and Edgecomb returned to
      the Hospital Wing, there was no longer a need to present a united
      front.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shooed Hermione towards the library. "Hermione, I'm your best
      friend and I support you regardless of who you are, but that would
      be a lot easier if you would stop lying to yourself and everyone
      around you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione laughed. "I'm presuming this isn't what it sounds
      like."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I sighed. Clearly I was going to have to spell this out for her.
      "You maimed Edgecomb."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It'll go away when she leaves Hogwarts," she muttered.
      "Besides, she deserves it. Bloody sneak."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, they used Veritaserum on her. And they only managed
      that because she'd gone to the Hospital Wing after Neville tried to
      use magic again," I said. His stubbornness would be the death of us
      all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stuttered, "Sh-she what? I mean, I didn't realize that
      the contract would have that effect unless the betrayal was
      willing. I just wanted –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Vengeance," I finished gravely. "You wanted vengeance for an
      act that hadn't even been committed yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't want people to betray us," Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shook my head, sighing, "See, that would have made sense if
      you'd actually told people about the betrayal clause. Then, it
      would serve as a deterrent. But you didn't tell anyone. I know; I
      checked with Ginevra."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione began sniffling. She always does this, hoping to
      distract from her misdeeds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I said, "I think that you didn't tell anyone because you wanted
      someone to betray us <em class="calibre8">just</em> so you could hurt them without
      consequence."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're wrong. I'll fix Edgecomb," Hermione said. "It shouldn't
      be too hard to reverse-engineer…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, see, this is the problem. You're trying to convince
      everyone that you're a good person, but you're just innately
      malicious. Rather than fight your inner evil, you're ignoring it.
      That isn't healthy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione ran away crying, still clinging to her denial.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron waited for Neville to wave him on with his sword before
      nervously approaching me. "Uh, mate, I was just with Hermione. She
      seems pretty upset. She says you think she's evil or
      something?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He grinned, speaking before I was finished. "Well, that's a
      relief 'cause –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I <em class="calibre8">know</em> she's evil."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron gaped. "Hermione's not evil. She's actually pretty
      nice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She usually curbs her urges," I said, "and that's admirable.
      But she's getting worse with time. If she keeps denying it, then
      people are going to get hurt. Important people. People who aren't
      Edgecomb."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But she follows a lot of rules, way more than us, and she's
      really upset when we break them," Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shook my head. "When Hermione does break rules, however, she
      has no distinction between stupid ones and basic human decency.
      Remember when she wanted to kidnap and interrogate those
      Slytherins? Or when she tortured that reporter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…No."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Clearly, Hermione had already obliviated him, covering up her
      crimes by erasing all evidence that they'd ever occurred. Of
      course, she'd been wise enough not to try such tampering with
      me.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, those things happened. Hermione usually follows the rules
      because she doesn't have a moral code."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She does! She cares about House Elves and stuff," Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I snorted. "Ron, the House Elves don't care about themselves.
      They're perfectly happy where they are, but Hermione is interfering
      because of some weird Muggle rule against slavery. Someone who
      understood moral nuance would realize that the most humane thing is
      to leave them be."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron wrinkled his Weasley face, grumbling, "Are you doing that
      thing where you say something and then you argue about it and give
      lots of evidence. Then, later, it turns out you're just wrong and
      you made up all the evidence?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. I'm definitely right this time," I assured him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron seemed very confused and somewhat deflated. I set a hand on
      his shoulder, motioning Neville to do the same. He used the sword,
      but that was close enough.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I smiled. "Look, we all have innate parts of our nature that we
      may only work around. Hermione is evil, you are a Weasley, and I am
      so good at lying that I sometimes fool myself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron's mouth fell open. "You know about that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, yeah, people have mentioned it. I can't cite any specific
      examples, but I presume it's happened."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ron's not a werewolf!" Ginevra shouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Right, yes, I had often lied to cover for Ron's lycanthropy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I continued, "The point is that Hermione, when not guided by
      rules, automatically does things that are incredibly cruel without
      even noticing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron shook his head. "Right, I should probably go talk to
      Hermione. She'll explain why you're wrong. At least, I hope she
      will."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You shouldn't think something just because she tells you to," I
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron should think things because <em class="calibre8">I</em> tell him to.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The next morning, Hermione still wasn't speaking to me,
      stubbornly eating breakfast at the very edge of the Gryffindor
      table.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She can't last for long," Ginevra assured me. "We're her only
      friends. The Ravenclaws are scared of her now, you've prejudiced
      her enough against Hufflepuffs that she's never gotten to know any,
      and the only Slytherin she talks to is Malfoy. The social isolation
      should get to her in a couple of days."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron said, "I wish she would talk to <em class="calibre8">one</em> of us, at
      least. I didn't even call her evil, really."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She's talking to me," Neville muttered into his eggs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna hummed in agreement. "She's talking to me, too, I think.
      But she just said that Fudge didn't have an army of Heliopaths
      because they don't exist. So now I'm not talking to her until she
      or Ron apologizes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why should I have to apologize?" Ron grumbled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I sighed, shaking my head. "Eventually, Hermione will realize
      that we're doing this for her own good. For now, we'll simply have
      to put up with her stubbornness."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An angry barn owl descended upon our table with the morning
      rush, clicking its beak at Luna, who smiled and gave it a knut. Ron
      said, "I thought your Da owned the Quibbler."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He does," Ginevra said as Luna carefully removed the paper from
      the owl's claws.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then why do you get the Prophet?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Most of it isn't true," Luna said, "but it's good for a
      laugh."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I nodded. "Right, that makes sense. Also, I've been meaning to
      ask: Why are you at the Gryffindor table?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione says that it's not against any rules" – she glanced at
      the Prophet – "Oh, it's about us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginevra grinned, hopping a little in her seat, and took a swig
      of pumpkin juice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron grabbed the paper from Luna, revealing the headline:
      <em class="calibre8">Umbridge attacks apprentice; flees country; resigns in
      disgrace.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">A very Weasley frown crossed Ron's face. "Ginny, what did you
      do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I apologized," Ginevra said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You what?" I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I sent a letter for you to Rita Skeeter, apologizing on the
      behalf of Dumbledore for lying to us all and Hermione for trying to
      kill her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Without my permission?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I figured that, if it didn't work, we could always say
      that I was a minion of one of your political enemies," she said.
      "It did, though, so I'm your publicist now! Of course, I did have
      to make a few concessions to get this article through. You have to
      do an interview this summer, and Skeeter gets to attend our
      wedding."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I glanced up from the paper. "What was that last demand?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She beamed. "You've got an interview."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," I muttered. "I can do that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville whistled, looking at his own edition. "There was a
      break-in at the Ministry, and it doesn't even get mentioned until
      the third page."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Apparently, it was a total bloodbath," one of the other
      Gryffindors chimed in. "Probably Sirius Black's fault."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, right!" Ginevra said. "I forgot to mention that I also
      apologized to the Prophet's editor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I frowned. "Huh, I don't think I've done anything to him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He didn't, either," she said. "He was really flattered."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">I stalked about the Malfoy parlor, sneering down at the brunette
      kneeling on the floor. "Bellatrix, you have once again failed me.
      Not only were you unable to find the Prophecy, but you were also
      incredibly unsubtle about your search. Now everyone knows of your
      mission."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix pouted. "But, my lord, I didn't leave a single
      witness."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I'm aware that you killed everyone in the building" – I
      massaged my brow – "I'm glad you had a nice time, but that is,
      again, not what I asked you to do. Luckily, you can redeem
      yourself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll do anything, my lord," she sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The old fool is already interviewing for next year's Defense
      professor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her eyes shone as I explained my plan.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dumbledore is interviewing for the DADA position," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginevra's eyes widened. "Really? I didn't hear about that at
      all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I smirked. "Yes, well, I had a dream about it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Down the table, Hermione huffed into her textbook. This was the
      closest she'd come to talking to me in the past few days, so I
      considered it progress.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I continued, "I asked Snape this morning, and he assures me that
      it's true. I can only assume that the dream was prophetic and that
      my diligent study of Divination has finally paid off."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you're gonna go see who the next person who wants to kill us
      is?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I stared at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He shrugged. "Well, it's true. Isn't it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville frowned. "If Dumbledore hires a professor now, then does
      that mean that he'll be gone by <em class="calibre8">this</em> June or this time
      next year? Or can he go for most of next year, too?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shrugged. "Magic is mysterious."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"While you're visiting Dumbledore, you should probably get
      official backing for the DA, too," Ginevra said. "Now that Umbridge
      is gone, we don't have any professor sponsoring us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Technically, I'm still a teaching assistant until Dumbledore
      hires a new professor," I said. "I might be able to get something
      more permanent, though. Ginevra, what's the current password to
      Dumbledore's office?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginevra grinned. "Chocolate Frogs."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The blonde witch skipped up the revolving staircase, oblivious
      to my invisible presence behind her. It was difficult to say if
      this was the result of her incompetence or my immense skill.
      Probably both.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I sank to the floor of Dumbledore's office, leaning against a
      wall as the witch flounce into a chair with an obnoxious giggle.
      Claws digging into my shoulder, Fawkes also watched. His beady,
      black eyes seemed hungry as it darted between Dumbledore and the
      blonde.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I'm so glad to meet you, Headmaster," the witch gushed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore's eyes twinkled. "Congratulations, Miss Farfelu."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tee-hee," Farfelu giggled. "Why are you congratulating me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore clapped his hand together, beaming. "You're our
      newest Defense Against the Dark Arts professor, of course!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I…I don't, tee-hee, understand. I thought this was an
      interview."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't believe that's necessary, dear girl. You seem perfectly
      suited to the position."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Farfelu pouted. "But I'm not sure about taking it. I mean, I
      haven't even talked to my husband yet, and he's wanted the position
      forever."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tell him to apply next year," Dumbledore said brightly.
      "Although, if I recall correctly, your resume mentioned that you
      were unmarried."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am. He's…He's, um, tee-hee…dead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore nodded. "I see. Encourage him to apply anyway. We
      have quite a few ghosts on staff, and – as my dear friend Cuthbert
      Binns always says – being dead is no reason to stop living."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll, tee-hee, tell him that," the blonde murmured. "Still, I'm
      not sure I'm interested."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore manipulated his features into a crestfallen
      expression. "I'm very sorry, my dear, but I'm afraid you've already
      agreed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Farfelu leapt to her feet, whipping out her wand to point it at
      Dumbledore's nose. The old man watched calmly, still smiling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What did you do?" Farfelu growled and then, after a short
      pause, added, "Tee-hee."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was in the contract that you signed earlier, you see."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The blonde sat down with a huff. "The one that I <em class="calibre8">had</em> to
      sign to get the interview?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore nodded. "Indeed. I'm afraid it had a clause that you
      would be the DADA teacher for a full school year, with your
      continued employment based upon my discretion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But that wasn't in the contract at all, tee-hee!" she
      cried.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was invisible and written in the margins. But I'm afraid
      that it <em class="calibre8">is</em> magically binding."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At that moment, Fawkes darted off my shoulder and out of the
      invisibility cloak, headed straight for Dumbledore's face.
      Dumbledore absentmindedly set up a shield. He turned to his new
      professor, explaining, "He's really very fond of me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The blonde pushed back her chair with a loud screech, though
      that only garnered the phoenix's attention. It gave her a hard
      stare, then turned back to pecking at Dumbledore's shield.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is all so very sudden," she said. "I'd hoped to get a tour
      of the castle first and maybe meet some of my future
      colleagues."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No worries, you can do all of that now that you've been hired,"
      Dumbledore reassured her. "Severus would gladly show you –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't suppose you could spare Sybill Trelawney? I've been
      dying to meet her since I was just a girl, you know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Farfelu batted her eyes, the gesture sending a familiar shiver
      down my spine. It was identical to a flirting Bellatrix. I should
      know. With all the love potions she's fed me, I've spent a
      cumulative fifteen minutes infatuated with her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore glanced in my direction but said, "Yes, I believe
      Sybill's class should be ending shortly. Do you need an
      escort?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tee-hee! No, I'm fine, thanks." Farfelu skipped out of
      Dumbledore's office and down the revolving staircase.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore turned his attention towards my corner of the room,
      quirking an eyebrow. "Mr. Potter, don't you have Potions at this
      time?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I whipped off the cloak, grumbling, "I don't know why I should
      attend if Snape doesn't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He is covering for Umbridge's Defense classes and cannot
      attend," Dumbledore said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I offered to take over the class," I said. "Permanently, if
      possible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I applaud your ambition, but I cannot hire a professor who has
      yet to take his OWLs."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I stood up and approached his desk. "I'll have taken my OWLs by
      the time next term starts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would prefer it if you took your NEWTs as well," Dumbledore
      said, obviously devising requirements solely to keep me from my
      dream. "Also, I've already chosen a professor for next term."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I frowned. "Oh, come on, she's obviously a Death Eater."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why would you think that?" Dumbledore had to raise his voice
      over Fawkes's increasingly furious attacks on his shield.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, you hired her, for a start," I said. "You always hire
      Death Eaters: Quirrel, Moody, Hagrid, Lupin –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore said, "Professor Lupin was not a Death Eater."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I snorted. "Werewolf Rights was a founding principle of the
      Death Eaters. All the werewolves worked for Voldemort."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can assure you that Professor Lupin worked for me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He was probably a spy then," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In fact, I'm pretty sure he was. I had plenty of spies in the
      Order of the Phoenix.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you ignored my Light professors, such as Gilderoy
      Lockhart," Dumbledore said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I stared at him gravely, and even the phoenix slowed its
      assault. "I think we both know that there won't be any more
      Lockharts. He was the bravest man I ever knew."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore sighed, smoothing down his magenta robes.
      "Nevertheless, I suspect that Professor Farfelu will be a wonderful
      teacher and may even be willing to continue your apprenticeship
      –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a whoosh of green flame from Dumbledore's fireplace,
      and Severus's enormous head dourly regarded us. "Headmaster, it
      appears that Farfelu has abducted your Divination professor and
      fled the castle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore paused for a moment. "You're certain that someone
      else did not abduct both of them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus raised an eyebrow. "I presume you're going to fire
      her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose that would be wise…Yes, I believe I will." Dumbledore
      stroked his beard to comfort himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus climbed out of the fireplace, the soot hidden by his
      black robes. "I suspected this would happen. I didn't warn you
      because I didn't actually expect you to hire her. After all, she
      was <em class="calibre8">obviously</em> a Death Eater."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"See?" I said. "Even Snape agrees with me, and he would know:
      He's a Death Eater, too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus snorted. "She tried to curse a student for walking
      beside her, and she bears an uncanny resemblance to Bellatrix
      Lestrange."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To be fair," I said. "Most wizards are related. They could just
      be cousins or something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Also, her only reference was Lucius Malfoy," he continued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He was quite complimentary," Dumbledore said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus watched Dumbledore with a calculating glint in his eyes.
      "Since I am now the only applicant –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I applied," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The <em class="calibre8">only</em> applicant…" Severus ground out. "I presume
      that you will finally allow me to assume my desired position?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore said, "Well, I suppose. I don't know where I'll get
      another Potions professor, though. There aren't many Potions
      Masters around, these days."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was no danger of Severus breaking the curse because he was
      a terrible teacher. Still, I refused to admit defeat. "I could
      teach Potions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Potter, you're failing the class," Severus drawled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right, and that's not your fault <em class="calibre8">at all</em>," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You still haven't taken your OWLs," Dumbledore reminded me.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine," I spat. "Divination, then. I'm great at Divination. I
      saw <em class="calibre8">all</em> of this coming."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"…and then they just kicked me out without even listening to
      what I had to say. For all they knew, I could have given a prophecy
      that said how to defeat the Dark Lord, but I wasn't going to tell
      them because they were total gits…Hermione? You're not being a very
      good friend right now. You've got the listening part right, I
      suppose, but you haven't tried to comfort me at all…I've been
      talking for ten minutes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It would be a lot easier to have this conversation if she hadn't
      barricaded herself inside Myrtle's loo. Hermione's muffled voice
      called, "Go away, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"See, you're talking now, but you're also being unnecessarily
      cruel."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione groaned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I said, "Oh, you're still upset about the 'evil' thing. It's
      been over a week. I assumed you'd gotten over that by now…Hey! I
      know something that'll cheer you up: Voldemort kidnapped
      Trelawney!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why would that make me happy? I'm <em class="calibre8">not evil</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I idly twirled my wand between my fingers, grinning. "No, you're
      not thinking this through. Voldemort captured her because she's a
      seer. He doesn't know her like we do. He thinks she's good. He'll
      listen to <em class="calibre8">everything</em> she says."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">More silence. I thought, perhaps wishfully, that it was a
      thoughtful one. "Remember what happened during my third Divination
      class? It'll be a lot like that, but Voldemort won't be throwing
      stunners. I figure he'll take out half his ranks in a week."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I had to strain to hear Hermione through the door. "Harry, why
      do you think that Voldemort wants Trelawney because she's a seer?
      Why do you think he'll listen to her at all?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I had a dream about it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She snorted derisively. "Honestly, Harry, you can't assume
      something just because…Wait, did this dream happen before or after
      Trelawney was kidnapped?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A few days before," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione hummed, and I could hear her getting to her feet. "This
      dream involved Voldemort?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah. Most of my dreams do," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She spoke slowly. "In these dreams, are you an invisible
      observer or –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I'm very involved. Actually, come to think of it, I might
      be Voldemort" – after a moment, I clarified – "in those
      dreams."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I could hear Hermione's building excitement. "And this is new,
      isn't it? Just the last year or so?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're a lot more vivid," I admitted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The door swung open, then, and Hermione emerged with a
      Cheshire-cat grin. She hurried past me, shouting, "I'll be in the
      library!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I smirked. I knew the Trelawney thing would cheer her up.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The Room of Requirement was quiet with only Neville, Ginevra,
      Ron, and I inside. There was no gaggle of practicing students, no
      Hermione making lesson plans, and the latest Felix Felicis brewing
      disaster had been mopped up a few hours earlier. Even Fawkes had
      returned to Dumbledore, content to watch and periodically attack
      him. The room darkened to match our somber mood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The last DA meeting," Ginevra sighed. "It's been a good
      run."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville said, "We can always do it again next year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginevra giggled. "Maybe we won't have to. Our new Defense
      professor might actually be good!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We all burst out into laughter, of which mine was the loudest
      and longest-lasting. The Room of Requirement's walls shivered
      merrily along with us, and we watched it fondly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron said, "It's kinda pathetic that it's just us here. We could
      have gotten a bunch more people to come if Hermione had let me get
      Firewhiskey from the twins."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginevra sent a Stinging Hex towards Ron. Neville was technically
      in the way, but he automatically twisted to avoid it. Ron glared at
      the younger Weasley. "What was that for?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The redhead beamed. "Hermione isn't here, so I'm covering for
      her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville smiled, ducking his head slightly as if to hide it.
      "It's funny. Before, she wasn't talking to you guys because you
      called her evil. Now, she's not talking to anyone because she's in
      the middle of another project."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Everything's back to normal, then," I said happily. "Except
      that Umbridge is gone. So it's better."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginevra said, "Can you believe we actually saved her life?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait, what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, all the Defense professors either die or leave. We made
      sure that she left, so that means that she didn't die," she
      explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville's face darkened. "She probably would have died in the
      Bellatrix Lestrange attack."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That incident had actually been pretty tame for Bellatrix. Only
      three students were sent to the Hospital Wing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron grinned. "Heh. I guess we beat the curse, then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A dreamy voice spoke from behind us. "Actually, we <em class="calibre8">were</em>
      the curse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Luna!" I cried. "How have you been?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thinking," Luna said. "I'm pretty sure I've figured out your
      secret."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I laughed condescendingly but quickly erected a Silencing Charm.
      Obliviating one person is difficult enough. I didn't need to add
      Neville and his insane dodging abilities into the mix. "Go on,
      then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna took a deep breath before saying, "When you were a little
      baby, did Voldemort accidentally put part of his soul in you,
      causing both of your souls to merge, so that you have all of his
      memories and will never acknowledge that you're not the same person
      because it's too central to your self-image?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I blinked in shock, unable to properly address the pure insanity
      that is Luna Lovegood. "I…no! Why would you ever think that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, it's just that you talk about doing terrible things a
      lot, but then you rarely do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're wrong again," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna pouted, crossing her arms. "I give up, then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I sighed. If I didn't give her some sort of explanation, she
      might think up something closer to the truth. Or, worse, talk to
      Hermione about it. "Why can't I just be an eccentric genius, who is
      otherwise perfectly normal?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She hummed thoughtfully. "Well, I suppose you could be, but that
      doesn't seem very narratively satisfying."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Luna, this isn't a story," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna said, "Oh. Right. I forget sometimes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Chuckling, I slung an arm around her shoulders and canceled the
      Silencing Charm. The others were waiting by the door, and the
      dummies waved goodbye as we closed it behind us. With that, our
      end-of-the-year meeting of the DADASGNF OWLs came to a close.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">I waved one of Dobby's cakes in front of my best minion, careful
      to keep it hidden from Pince's suspicious gaze. The frizzy hair
      parted to reveal a sniffing nose, then wide, dark rimmed eyes.
      Hermione Granger looked like something from the Forbidden
      Forest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione," I said. "You still understand English, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione eyes brightened, and she indignantly said, "Of course I
      understand English!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good, I'd begun to fear you'd gone feral," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione rolled her eyes, breaking a chunk of cake from the
      slice in front of her. She dropped it onto her tongue with a
      blissful sigh. I frowned. "Have you eaten at all in the past few
      days?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," she said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really? Are you sure you haven't forgotten? Because that seems
      like something you would do. You've either been here or taking your
      OWLs for the past week, and I haven't seen you in the Great
      Hall…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione smiled. "Careful there, Harry, I might start to think
      you cared."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, thank you for the warning," I said. I wouldn't want to give
      her a false impression, after all. Honesty is very important in a
      master/minion relationship.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really, though, I have eaten. The House Elves have been
      sneaking in food after hours."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…and you've been sleeping here. Yes, I'm aware" – I waved off
      her explanations – "I admire your dedication to never leaving the
      library. I have similar feelings about Hogwarts. But I do need my
      invisibility cloak back."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione rifled through her bag in search of the starry fabric.
      "Any particular reason?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Primarily that it's mine," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…Right," she murmured, handing it to me.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione turned back to her open book, rapidly flipping pages. I
      glanced around the nearly-abandoned library and said, "The Leaving
      Feast is starting soon. I presume you're coming?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can't. Madame Pince doesn't loan out library books this late in
      the year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I scowled. "You have to come! It's the last feast of the
      year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, that is what 'Leaving Feast' means." Hermione flipped
      another page.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All of our friends are going to be there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh-huh."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I said, "I'm giving a speech."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione ignored me.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you don't put down the book and come with me, I'll tell
      Pince that you've been eating in the library."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her head jerked up in horror. "But, Harry –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So that's a yes then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I haven't figured out what's wrong with you," she
      whined.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"People have been trying to figure that one out for decades," I
      said. "You're not going to manage it in one night."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But, your visions –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can remain a mystery until September," I said. "Unless you want
      me to plant crumbs between some of the books' pages?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a pout, Hermione shut the tome. "You're evil."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I smirked. "Well, that makes two of us, then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She chased me across the castle, hexing all the way. Still, they
      were only mildly painful, and we ended our flight in the Great
      Hall.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore was finishing his end of term speech when Hermione
      and I arrived.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Before we fill our bellies, Harry Potter would like to say a
      few words."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I nodded towards Dumbledore and strode to the front of the room.
      Smiling at the crowd's uneasy murmuring, I said, "Hello, fellow
      students. As you all know, Umbridge apprenticed me earlier in the
      school year. Since she has fled the continent, that leaves me in
      charge of her former duties. I've already gotten rid of the
      educational decrees…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The students cheered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…and reinstated Professor Snape…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few groans responded to that statement. I had been reluctant
      to rehire the man, but, though there were many legitimate reasons
      to fire him, being a werewolf was not one of them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, it has come time to destroy the last of Umbridge's
      unwelcome additions to this school" – in the crowd, Draco Malfoy
      scowled – "I would like to officially disband the Inquisitorial
      Squad."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The silver I's on the members' robes poofed away in a cloud of
      smoke while the rest of the school celebrated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have more to say," I said. "You see, I have a few last-minute
      points to announce…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus Dumbledore had set a dangerous precedent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…Some students decided to go above and beyond the requirements
      of their professors. When faced with a terrible teacher, they chose
      to learn outside of the classroom. Under the tutelage of me, Harry
      Potter, they have learned much and are likely the only students who
      didn't fail their OWLs this year. As such, I would like to award a
      hundred points to each student who participated in my study
      group."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Ravenclaw, Hufflepuff, and Gryffindor hourglasses filled
      with gems. I smirked. "I believe this calls for a change of
      decorations. Congratulations, Ravenclaw!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a flick of my wand, the room turned bronze and blue. There
      was cheering at all four tables. Presumably, this is because the
      Slytherins knew exactly what we were going to do to them after they
      won. Of course, the Weasley twins were conspicuously absent from
      the Gryffindor table, so the Slytherins' relief would be
      short-lived.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I cleared my throat. "One last thing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Hall immediately quieted down as I turned to the Slytherin
      table.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">That</em>, Draco, is how you cheat."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is this place any safer, Madame Trelawney?" I asked, pacing the
      length of our latest headquarters. This only took about thirty
      seconds, and I stepped on no less than three followers along the
      way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Trelawney raised a hand to her cheek. "Oh, it is difficult, you
      know, to call upon the whispers of fate. She is a fickle
      thing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius anxiously looked out the window. "My lord, I don't think
      that this location is particularly safe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I waved away his concerns. "Nonsense. Our oracle will inform us
      of any danger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He said, "My home has far greater protections. If we had
      remained there –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We all would have died. Trelawney saw the Grim in her teacup.
      We've been over this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Trelawney danced around my followers, who lounged on the floor,
      and placed her crystal ball on a roughly-constructed, wooden table.
      She peered into its depths, humming thoughtfully. We leaned
      forward, awaiting her visions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her voice was high and breathy. "Yes. Yes, this shall do…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix dove for the only bed, hissing and hexing until
      everyone else had scrambled to the floor. Nagini had formed some
      sort of nest in the fireplace. Lucius summoned a House Elf to "make
      the place livable." Hagrid watched, bemused, from a gargantuan
      chair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Trelawney's eyes were round and wide behind her glasses. She
      whispered, "At least, for now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Groaning, my Death Eaters settled in for a night at Hagrid's
      hut.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">A/N: In this chapter, Harry asserts that Remus, a
      werewolf, must be a Death Eater. One might assume that this is
      because Harry is insane (a not unreasonable assumption and one well
      worth keeping in mind for future events). However, it's worth
      noting that the Order of the Phoenix made this</strong>
      <strong class="calibre7">exact same assumption</strong> <strong class="calibre7">in
      canon.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">I assume it went something like this:</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">"Hey, guys, I hear we've got a spy!"</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">"That's incredibly dangerous to us all. We'd better use
      Veritaserum or Legilimency to find out who he or she is so that we
      can stop future, traitorous deeds."</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">"Yeah, I guess we could do that. Or we could just stop
      telling Remus things."</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">"That is a sound and perfectly reasonable plan. How
      could it ever go wrong?"</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">...and then the plot of Harry Potter happened.</strong>
      <em class="calibre8"><strong class="calibre7">Whoops.</strong></em></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
