<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter Seventh Horcrux - Seventh Horcrux Chapter 14: HP vs Love (Pt 1), a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter Seventh Horcrux"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s14" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 14: HP vs Love (Pt 1)</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">This chapter exemplifies a reoccurring theme in</strong>
      <strong class="calibre7">Seventh Horcrux:</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">People who aren't as sneaky as they think they are but
      are getting away with it anyway.</strong></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Seventh Horcrux</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span>Chapter 8: Harry Potter vs. Love (Pt. 1)</span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pushing through the late August crowd of students and their
      families, I made my way into the Leaky Cauldron. With a nod to Tom,
      I headed upstairs to one of its private rooms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry!" Ginevra tried to tackle me with a hug, but, thankfully,
      I got a shield up just in time. I edged around her, greeting Rita
      Skeeter as I settled into a chair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The reporter smiled a shark-like grin, and, with a snap of her
      fingers, her Quick Quotes Quill started scribbling on the sheet
      beside her. "Good to see you. I was starting to wonder if I ever
      would. Your stunning, young –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Publicist," Ginevra said helpfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Skeeter's smile widened. "<em class="calibre8">…publicist</em> has been putting
      me off for months. So tell me, Harry, just where have you been all
      summer? The wizarding public is dying to know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I said, "I've been living in a magically-expanded trunk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rita Skeeter gasped, and even her quill paused. "Oh, I wouldn't
      keep doing that. My coworker's father owned one of those. The
      charms broke when he was inside, and they had to bury him in it.
      Two-hundred people attended the funeral, social event of the
      season. I, of course, reported."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I found another downside last June," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Skeeter leaned forward eagerly, saying, "Really? Go on, don't
      keep us in suspense."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione mailed me to France. At least, I think it was France.
      Do they speak French anywhere else?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Skeeter tapped her chin with a sharp, red-painted fingernail.
      "Well, there's Canada."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, that doesn't seem right," I muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Some parts of Africa, too," Ginevra said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That might have been it," I said. "Anyway, I tried to get back
      to Britain by crossing the nearest body of water, but that just put
      me in Asia. So, now, I've been to all seven continents…At least,
      presuming that was Africa, and I've made a lot of friends who I
      never intend to see again. But the weird part is that I don't feel
      like I've learned anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not <em class="calibre8">every</em> adventure has a moral lesson. Just the best
      ones," Ginevra said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shook my head. "No, I mean: I didn't learn <em class="calibre8">anything</em>.
      I didn't learn the Oriental mystic arts or any new languages. And I
      still don't know what the Americans do. This trip was completely
      pointless."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We all spent a moment contemplating that much of our lifetime is
      taken up by useless and often futile endeavors. At least, that's
      what I was thinking about. I don't know about Ginevra and
      Skeeter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Skeeter broke the silence. "Why exactly do you think that
      Hermione Granger shipped you abroad? Was it a lover's spat? A
      shocking and unprovoked attack upon Wizarding Britain's savior? A
      clear sign of her growing mental instability?"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"That went really well," Ginevra enthused, nearly bouncing in
      her seat. "I think Skeeter likes you. I didn't even know she could
      do that!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I smirked. "Of course. After all, I am a charming, adventurous,
      brilliant, yet completely normal Hogwarts student. What's not to
      like?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She gave me a goofy smile, staring at my face for altogether too
      long. I said, "You can leave now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginevra jumped a bit, cheeks reddened in embarrassment. "Okay.
      Dumbledore should be picking you up in twenty minutes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was the first time I'd heard of such a thing. What was the
      old man trying to pull now?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He isn't trying to pull anything, I don't think," Ginevra said.
      "Apparently, he needs you to help him. Something about the Potions
      professorship."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's actually hiring me?" I did do pretty well on my OWLs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginevra shook her head. "No, he specifically mentioned that you
      weren't getting a teaching post. He said it like six times."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When did this happen?" I asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"July. I sent you an owl."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I probably would have been in Antarctica, at the time," I
      muttered. "Did the owl ever come back?"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore and I strolled into Slughorn's home. It was torn
      apart, with spell gouges in the walls, burn marks on the ceiling,
      and a fair bit of blood by the door. A bit like the Gryffindor
      common room, come to think of it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slughorn was in the corner, pretending to be a chair. He used to
      do that all the time when I was in school. Apparently, he got in
      trouble for it. I can't imagine why; everyone thought it was
      funny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Horace," Dumbledore said. "I know it's you. You haven't changed
      the pattern on the upholstery in fifty years."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slughorn transformed back into himself, though he took up nearly
      as much space as the armchair had. "Ah, Albus. Good to see you,
      good to see you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You as well," he said. "And may I introduce young Harry
      Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slughorn's eyes lit up, and he grabbed my hand in both his.
      "Wonderful meeting you, Mr. Potter. I've heard you like Quidditch.
      I happen to be personally acquainted with a Puddlemere United
      Chaser. Perhaps you would like to meet him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I may be interested, in the future. I'm very busy, you
      know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course, of course," he chuckled. "Defeating Dark Lords and
      all that. Now, if that will be all, I really must be going."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore looked around the ruined home. "I'm afraid I rarely
      have time for social visits lately. I'm here to offer you your old
      position. There's no place safer than Hogwarts –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tell that to the Perks girl," I muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"–and you're clearly in hiding from Voldemort."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slughorn chortled. "Yes, well, you see…I'm actually not. I was
      hiding from you. An old acquaintance of mine mentioned in passing
      that you might be paying me this visit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore heaved a heavy sigh, as if he actually felt bad about
      manipulating everyone around him. "I am terribly sorry to interrupt
      your retirement, but I'm afraid we're desperate. If you don't take
      the post, Harry Potter will. And he's not allowed in the Potions
      room unsupervised."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To be fair," I said, "no one died, and <em class="calibre8">I</em> was the one
      who reconstructed the floor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slughorn frowned, shifting his great weight from foot to foot.
      "Won't the Ministry give you someone, if no one else applies?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think I would prefer Harry," Dumbledore admitted. "Our last
      replacement was less than exemplary."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I remember hearing about that. Umbridge was such a sweet,
      little Hufflepuff when I taught her. Never would have imagined
      she'd attack the Boy-Who-Lived. Of course, the Boy-Who-Lived wasn't
      born then, so I suppose that's a reasonable oversight."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slughorn chuckled to himself, ending in a nervous cough upon
      realizing that no one had joined him. "Surely there's someone else
      who can take the post…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore sighed. "I fear that young people nowadays just don't
      have the patience for potions. Hogwarts hasn't graduated a Potions
      Master in over a decade."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I rolled my eyes. "Can't imagine why."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore set a hand on Slughorn's shoulder. "Horace, do not
      force me to hire Harry Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm looking forward to being the Head of Slytherin," I
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That isn't a requirement," Dumbledore assured him. "Severus is
      still on staff."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Huh. I assumed it was position-based. Why else would the Potions
      classroom be in the dungeons, even though it lacks a proper
      ventilation system and most of the fumes end up in the Slytherin
      common room?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore's eyes twinkled with…Were those tears? "You are our
      last hope."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It seemed that I would not be on staff for the coming school
      year.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione Granger stormed into my train car.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I did not mail you to Algeria!" she shouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, that was quite the hello. "Really? Then who did,
      Hermione?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know," Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm certain that we've established your knowledge of
      everything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nobody knows everything, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I raised an eyebrow, and, with a huff, Hermione said, "Fine.
      You've been brewing several volatile potions in an enclosed space
      without proper ventilation. Maybe they combined oddly. Or maybe you
      sent yourself there with accidental magic. Or maybe your Felix
      Felicis attempts are finally coming to fruition, leaving you with
      horrible luck. Or maybe the charms on your trunk broke and this
      whole thing is a dying dream!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That last one doesn't seem very likely," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's shoulders slumped, no doubt downtrodden by my
      criticism, and she buried her face in her hands. She trembled with
      laughter, finally gasping, "Honestly, Harry, you meet with Rita for
      an hour and somehow end up with two pages on how awful I am. How
      does that even happen?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It arose organically," I said. Hermione's growing evil is a
      topic of shared interest between myself and Skeeter, since I am the
      girl's best friend and she is an ongoing victim.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione shook her head, still giggling. "Right, fine.
      Apparently Skeeter has decided that slandering me is okay as long
      as it's a direct quote. The other page is about your love life, by
      the way, and I don't even think you <em class="calibre8">have</em> one of
      those."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I settled back onto my seat. "After I defeated that dark lord in
      Albania, I might have been engaged to a nobleman's daughter. Or he
      might have been yelling at me because that dark lord was one of the
      good ones. I'm not sure. I never learned the language."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginevra walked in, flanked by Ron. "You probably shouldn't go to
      that country for a while, just to be on the safe side."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I dunno about that. Is she a good-looking bird?" Ron asked.
      Hermione and Ginevra both leaned over to smack his arm, although
      Ginevra then apologized to her for the presumption.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione smiled and asked, "How was your summer, Ginny?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Great! I think I've finally found the family Dark Magic!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron gaped. "WHAT?!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I beamed. "I always knew the Weasleys were hiding
      something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, it isn't the Weasley stuff, actually. I'm still working
      on that," Ginevra demurred. "But I did find out the Prewett Dark
      Magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">When</em>?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mum and I were in the kitchen" – she smiled pityingly at her
      older brother – "You shouldn't feel bad about it. I'm pretty sure
      it's only passed on to daughters."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginevra, focus!" I snapped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She nodded, and, cruelly drawing out her words, said, "It's a
      love potion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh." I felt rather disappointed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron seemed caught between relief that he hadn't missed out on
      any great inheritance and misery that his family had once again
      failed to do anything impressive. "Well, is it any good?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think so," Ginevra said, "Mum dosed Dad when they were in
      school, and he's still in love with her."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"You do realize that we're missing the Start-of-Term Feast,
      right?" I said. "I mean, I know that you love the library, but this
      is getting ridiculous. It'll still be here in the morning."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's voice drifted out of the stacks. "Oh, hush."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Finally, with a triumphant cry (which she hurriedly quieted),
      she emerged with an open book resting in her hands. "I've developed
      a theory for what's going on with your dreams."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean outside of the fact that I'm a seer?" I asked,
      lounging against the bookcase.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione set down her book with a thud. "I suspect that you have
      some sort of magical connection with Voldemort. Presumably, this is
      centered around your scar or the use of your blood during the Unum
      Corpus ritual –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The ritual Voldemort used to revive himself," Hermione said. "I
      looked it up over the summer. It's not Dark Magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I frowned. "Wait, do you mean that it's not that obscure, or
      that it's not evil. Because I'm never sure if you're using the
      correct definition or not nowadays –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione pursed her lips, snapping, "Harry. Not the time.
      Anyway, you clearly have some sort of magical bond. Well, either
      that or you're soul mates. But, if that were the case, the distance
      and hostility almost certainly would have killed you both by now.
      Regardless, I've figured out how to deal with the situation…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She flipped the book around and jabbed its title with her
      finger. "Occlumency."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm afraid that's not going to work for me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She blinked. "What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm just not any good at it. You're supposed to clear your mind
      and stop having emotions. But I'm always thinking because I'm a
      genius, and I sometimes have these sudden and inexplicable flashes
      of rage."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I'd tried to get Severus to train me with Occlumency, prior to
      my time as Harry Potter. I didn't realize, then, how bad he was at
      teaching.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione leaned against a bookcase, looking rather pale. "But I
      spent the whole summer learning the techniques. I've been preparing
      lesson plans…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shrugged. "You probably should have asked me first."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She grabbed her wand from her pocket, shaking it at me. "You
      were in Algeria!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, not all the time. I was in Russia for a while. That isn't
      particularly far, I don't think."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She shook her head. "You <em class="calibre8">should</em> learn Occlumency,
      though. It protects your mind from foreign intrusion, and these
      visions are bound to get worse with time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I chuckled. "I'll be <em class="calibre8">fine</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione glared into my eyes and, with a determined tilt of the
      chin, said, "Legilimens."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A moment later, we were roused from our mental match when
      Hermione's wand fell, with a clatter, to the floor. She grabbed her
      eyes, hissing in pain. I dove for her wand before following
      suit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For Merlin's sake, Hermione, why did you do that?!" I shouted.
      Thankfully, Pince was downstairs, feasting with everyone else.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wanted to prove how serious the situation was," she said.
      "What did you do, anyway?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, yes. I neglected to mention that, while I'm ill-suited for
      Occlumency, I have the single-minded attitude, nosiness and
      disregard for others' privacy that are essential to a Legilimens.
      Therefore, when someone uses Legilimency on me, I use Legilimency
      back on them, but harder."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I waited for comprehension to dawn in her eyes, but they
      remained as dull as a Weasley's. Sighing, I continued, "I am
      reading your mind, while you are reading me reading your mind.
      You're technically reading your own mind, so you think you're just
      thinking. Then, you try to read my mind. It all goes in a loop
      until you either notice the problem or are forced to break eye
      contact for some other reason."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait, was <em class="calibre8">that</em> what you guys were doing?" Ron asked.
      "I just thought you were having the most brilliant staring contest
      ever."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione sputtered, "R-Ron? When did you get here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The redhead contorted his face into something resembling
      thoughtfulness. "An hour ago, I guess?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We arrived at 10:24 if you want to be precise about it,"
      Ginevra said. "The Feast ended ages ago, so we borrowed the cloak
      from Harry's trunk and went looking for you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, that explained our pained eyes. Hermione sighed. "Three
      hours and we still haven't figured out how to stop your
      dreams."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait. Where did you get the idea that I wanted them to
      stop?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione held out her hand for her wand, which I reluctantly
      returned. "Well, I presumed you wouldn't want to see whatever
      atrocities Voldemort gets up to in his spare time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think I've seen anything that bad yet," I said. "The
      Death Eaters spend most of their time squabbling about who gets the
      bed or who is Voldemort's most loyal servant or who Nagini is
      allowed to eat. Besides, they give me all sorts of useful
      information."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione frowned. "But Voldemort could show you something
      specific, to trick you, and then you might act right into his
      hand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, that's deviously brilliant," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione breathed a soft sigh, no doubt thrilled that her plan
      had gone over so well. "Then you understand why you need to protect
      your mind from –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We should do that!"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius looked miserable in the old Black manor, tearing at his
      hair with his silver hand. Several House Elves were scuttling
      around him, lifting his robes so that they avoided the grimy floors
      and leaving a trail of polish and shine in their wake.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The blond muttered, "Disgusting. At least Hagrid's wasn't
      booby-trapped…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nagini had similarly chosen to escape the filth by hiding
      beneath my robes. She poked her head outside to announce, <em class="calibre8">"I'm
      hungry. I haven't eaten in days."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Right, yes. This is why I'd never kept a pet when I was in
      school. I mean, I haven't fed the Basilisk in…Actually, I don't
      think I ever fed the Basilisk. I should do something about that
      when I conquer Wizarding Britain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I stroked Nagini's head, smiling fondly upon her. <em class="calibre8">"Maybe, if
      you stop trying to devour Sirius every time he turns into a grim,
      he'll feed you his House Elf."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Kreacher was a wretched thing and unable to properly perform its
      housecleaning duties. Insane, too, if its insistence that Sirius
      Black was a blood traitor was anything to go by.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of course, that might have been the result of its unfortunate
      former owner.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius, Severus, and Hagrid approached us from another room.
      Those three were very close, presumably having bonded over their
      shared occupation as spies. When the deceased Madame Black's
      portrait started screeching, the trio agreed to use their charm and
      cunning to explain our position.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius grinned, giving a jaunty wave to our assembled group.
      Nagini tasted the air at his entrance but stilled at my stern
      look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The old bat'll shut up for a while. We'll be better off if you
      talk to her though" – Severus elbowed him in the ribs, and Sirius
      smoothly added – "My lord."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can do that," I said. "Have you discovered what got her so
      upset?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus said, "Since Black was so <em class="calibre8">deeply</em> undercover,
      his mother was under the false impression that he was a blood
      traitor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I chuckled. "I see. How incredibly embarrassing for her. After
      all, you are my right hand man."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Severus said in his usual, flat tone. "Madame Black now
      understands that and is very apologetic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius gave a barking laugh. "We can still take down the wall if
      you'd like, m'lord. Air the place out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus sent a stinging hex at him, and Sirius – turning into a
      giant, black dog – tackled him to the floor. We watched, amused at
      their antics.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two inner circle members had a rather tumultuous
      relationship. One moment, they were throwing curses and shouting
      obscenities. The next, they were whispering in each other's ears
      and sneaking off to a private corner of Hagrid's hut.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Young love: I would never understand it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I wandered into the kitchen, Lucius trailing behind me like a
      proper minion. There, Trelawney was comfortably ensconced at a
      little table. She seemed happily oblivious to the dust powdering
      the air and settling in her teacup.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius was evidently horrified.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have you had any new premonitions?" I asked the prophetess.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is difficult," Trelawney whispered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can always return to my manor," Lucius said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So very difficult to see…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked at me beseechingly. "My beautiful, <em class="calibre8">clean</em>
      manor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Trelawney's head snapped up, and she peered at us through
      dust-caked glasses. "Have you prepared me a room, someplace where I
      might rest my third eye?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," I said. "You can have the whole third floor, if you
      like."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Trelawney beamed, dropping the teacup in her excitement. "I have
      seen it…YES! This shall be a most fortunate place for us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've been thinking the same thing," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Trelawney said, "You have the Gift, I dare say, or are at least
      wise enough to understand a true prediction when you hear one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I gave her a thin, pleased smile. Of course, Nagini's decision
      to emerge from my robes and curl around my neck at that moment lent
      a somewhat unsettling effect to the gesture.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I told the snake, <em class="calibre8">"We'll be staying here from now
      on."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She squeezed my neck to demonstrate her displeasure. <em class="calibre8">"I
      cannot hunt unicorns here."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">I winced, tugging her free to set her on the floor. <em class="calibre8">"You've
      been killing unicorns?!"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"I would like to,"</em> Nagini admitted, <em class="calibre8">"but I haven't
      found one yet."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Oh. That's alright then."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"And there were so many tasty creatures in the Forest…"</em>
      she hissed wistfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I scowled down at her. <em class="calibre8">"I'm not going to starve
      you."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Then this will be a good nest,"</em> Nagini decided,
      slithering towards the drawing room. <em class="calibre8">"It's dark, and it smells
      like you."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">I heard a distant explosion, and the portrait began wailing
      again. With a nod towards Trelawney, I left to deal with Severus
      and Sirius's latest lover's spat.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore had sent a summons, expecting me to walk right into
      his grasp. But I was not such a fool. I crept invisibly into
      Dumbledore's office, wand ready, and surveyed the environment in a
      way that would make Moody proud. Then, I exclaimed, "What is wrong
      with your hand?!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore smiled and waved with his blackened, shriveled hand.
      "Ah, Harry. I had forgotten that you missed the Welcome Feast. I'm
      afraid that I've contracted an illness that has negatively affected
      my hand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dragon Pox? That's really been going around lately," I
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…Possibly," Dumbledore said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You should get that checked out," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll certainly take that into advisement," Dumbledore said,
      which is his way of saying that he'll completely ignore it. "Don't
      you have a class, at the moment?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's just Defense. Snape'll fail me no matter what I do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For once, I could go into a year of schooling unconcerned about
      losing my future post. After all, I already knew that Snape was a
      horrible teacher.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wish you two would work through your differences," Dumbledore
      said, "and I didn't intend for you to skip class."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If he had really meant that, he would have put it in the note. I
      asked, "Why did you want to see me, anyway? I haven't done anything
      yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I hoped to show you a memory," he said. "Do you know what a
      pensieve is?"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">I stumbled out of the pensieve, Dumbledore serenely following.
      Fawkes, of course, was watching us.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore asked, "Did you notice anything interesting about the
      Gaunts, Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I channeled my inner Ron. "No, not really. Except for the fact
      that they're dirty, evil Slytherins."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You do have a very extreme view of Slytherins," Dumbledore
      noted with a frown. "Perhaps you recognized that they, like
      Voldemort, are descendants of Slytherin?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I guess. They seemed pretty awful, though. Probably a
      Squib line," I muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes…I'm afraid that Merope –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I blinked. "Who?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The girl in the grey dress."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She was Voldemort's mother." Dumbledore peered into my eyes,
      waiting for a response.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wasn't Voldemort an orphan?" – I paused for a moment – "I think
      he mentioned that during a monologue."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He still had parents, if only for a short time," Dumbledore
      said. "Though his parents were not as brave and good as yours."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I nodded. It occurred to me that I should probably find out the
      Potters' first names before people realized that I didn't know
      them. This resolution had long been hampered by how little I
      cared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore prattled on about my family history, though I found
      it difficult to feign interest. No matter what Dumbledore may have
      thought, I'd just turned seventy years old. I'd moved on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sure, I had some family issues in my youth, but I killed them
      and got over it.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">We walked down the hall quickly, eager to be away from History
      of Magic. Fawkes, as usual, peered down at us from a protruding
      gargoyle that wasn't there yesterday. We were well into the walk to
      our next class by the time Hermione had properly packed up her bag
      and latched it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron turned to her. "Uh, 'Mione, I know there isn't really
      anything better to do during History of Magic, but why were you
      watching Malfoy the whole time?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He was watching us first," Hermione said. "He has been all
      week. It's suspicious."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron shrugged. "I dunno. That sounds pretty normal for him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I said, "Between Malfoy and Fawkes, I assume I'm under
      surveillance at all times."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, yes, but he's more persistent about it. Quieter, too. He
      hasn't called me a Mudblood at all, lately."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you're starting to miss it?" I guessed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione glared at me. "No, I am not! It's just odd. He goes
      missing for hours at a time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do <em class="calibre8">you</em> know that?" Ron asked. "We've only got a
      couple of classes with him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginevra told me…and he hasn't said anything about his father or
      his money all year!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione was flushed and breathing heavily, impassioned. Ron
      stared at her, red-faced from our short yet brisk walk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I said, "He's probably still shaken up from that thing with the
      twins last year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Apparently, the Slytherin common room still smells like smoke,"
      Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione hissed, "Malfoy is up to something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shrugged. "I'm not too concerned, really."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stormed off. It wasn't a particularly effective exit,
      however, because she was still going in the same direction as us.
      Also, I sat next to her in our next class, which was starting in
      about three minutes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I frowned. "I wonder if she wants to rekindle her romance with
      Malfoy…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron whipped around. "WHAT?!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You didn't know?" I asked. "Except, no, I suppose you wouldn't.
      They kept it pretty quiet, after all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bloody hell, mate, what are you talking about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Back in Fourth Year, Hermione and Malfoy dated for a while.
      Things got pretty intense, but then they realized that they were
      from two different worlds and could never be together…Draco was
      devastated."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Y-you're taking the piss out of me, right?" Ron stuttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shook my head gravely. "No, Ron. Even I can't make this stuff
      up!"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Later that evening, we were lounging in the Gryffindor common
      room, doing homework, when Ron stumbled over with a giggling witch
      hanging off his arm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So Lavender and me are dating, now," Ron said. "We're really
      into each other."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I tried my best to ignore the situation, while Ginevra was
      hurriedly taking notes. Hermione pursed her lips. "Really? How did
      you two get together?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, I dunno. It happened pretty naturally, I guess. We have a
      lot in common, y'know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think he's just <em class="calibre8">so</em> brave for facing his
      transformations every month," Lavender cooed. "Aren't you,
      Won-Won?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron laughed nervously. "It's not like I do that much, really.
      I'm just a guy…who turns into a werewolf sometimes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lavender kissed him on the nose. "So humble, too!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I said, "I, for one, am glad that Ron is finally being open
      about his werewolf status after so many years of hiding."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not a…uh, hiding. Anymore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lavender squeezed his arm, beaming.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione raised an eyebrow. "Yes, I <em class="calibre8">really</em> admire your
      honesty."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…Thanks," Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lavender glanced at Hermione, whispered something in Ron's ear,
      and burst into giggles. Ron mostly looked uncomfortable, though he
      happily accepted her offer to snog.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In an unrelated incident, Hermione started grumbling about
      something (presumably Malfoy) and snapped her quill in half.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
