<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter Seventh Horcrux - Seventh Horcrux Chapter 17: HP vs Himself (Pt 1), a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter Seventh Horcrux"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s17" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 17: HP vs Himself (Pt 1)</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Seventh Horcrux</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span>Chapter 9: Harry Potter vs. Himself (Pt. 1)</span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The delivery owl drifted into Hermione's kitchen, buoyed by a
      summer breeze. While she offered it a knut and a bit of toast, I
      snagged the <em class="calibre8">Prophet</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's rather rude, you know," she huffed as the owl flew
      away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I glanced up from the newspaper, frowning. "You're the one who
      asked me to come outside for meals."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione pouted. "But you stole my paper."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You also asked me to keep up with the news," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a groan and a muttered, "Too early for this," Hermione
      turned her attention to her breakfast.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I hummed thoughtfully as I skimmed the front page. "Looks like
      Dumbledore died."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione gasped, dropping her toast, and I continued, "Some sort
      of wasting sickness. Probably Dragon Pox. I told him to get that
      arm checked out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is there a funeral?" she asked, all sniffles and crocodile
      tears.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Doesn't say" – I spotted several familiar names in the article
      below it – "Death Eaters have taken over the Ministry, too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's eyes widened, all attempts at grief forgotten.
      "WHAT?!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It doesn't explicitly say that, but it's pretty heavily
      implied," I assured her. "Also, Snape's the new headmaster."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione pushed her plate away. "Oh, Harry, this is awful."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know! Slytherin will win the House Cup for sure," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not that!" she snapped. "Voldemort has control over Hogwarts.
      He hates Muggleborns –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Allegedly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"– and he <em class="calibre8">despises</em> you, and I'm your Muggleborn best
      friend. There's absolutely no way we can return to Hogwarts. How
      are we supposed to prepare for our NEWTs?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I blinked. "Really? <em class="calibre8">That's</em> your problem with this? I
      assumed you were talking about the murder."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She buried her face in her hands and seemed to be having some
      difficulty breathing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It'll be fine," I reassured her. "I just turned seventeen. We
      grab Ron, go on the run, and finish the task Dumbledore set for
      us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione peeked upwards, eyes alight with curiosity. "Task?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There are five items necessary to defeat Voldemort," I said.
      "We have to gather them all and use them in a Dark ritual."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was time to collect my Horcruxes. Once Voldemort fell, who
      knew what would happen to them?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I continued, "They include the Gaunt ring, Voldemort's pet
      snake, Ravenclaw's Diadem, Hufflepuff's Cup –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Those are lost artifacts, Harry," Hermione said. "People have
      been searching for them for generations."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I snorted. "Voldemort found them. How hard can it be? We don't
      even have to find the last one. He's currently wearing Slytherin's
      locket."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So we'll need to get it off of his neck, then?" Hermione
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not a problem," I said cheerfully. "If he has it, then it'll be
      there when we need it. He's actually helping us by keeping it close
      because he is arrogant and insane."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She rolled her eyes, but smiled. "That makes thing easier for
      us, I suppose. We'll need someplace to stay –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Way ahead of you," I assured her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not the trunk," she said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, not that. It's better than the trunk. I'll tell you about
      it once we've grabbed Ron."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I brought my trunk out from the guest bedroom. I held a hand out
      to Hermione, but she refused it with a tight smile. "You go ahead.
      I need to pack and have a talk with my parents."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a quick wave, I apparated to the Weasleys' hovel.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Arriving at the Burrow, Hermione carefully stepped around my
      trunk, which was spewing a pearly mist. Soon, I would need to add
      fairy wings to my cauldron of Felix Felicis.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hi guys," Hermione said, nodding to Ron, Ginevra, and me before
      turning to the man beside us. "Nice to see you again,
      Professor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lupin smiled at her. "I'm not a professor anymore. Please, call
      me Remus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Something deep inside Hermione exploded at the thought of
      addressing a former authority figure as an equal, and she devolved
      into stuttered protests.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron interjected, "Lupin's working with the werewolves now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lupin sighed. "They're not working with me, though. Not after
      all the Werewolf Rights legislation that just got pushed
      through."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I snorted. "It's about time, really. They were first suggested
      decades ago."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lupin said, "I'm surprised you all know so much about this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Long-standing interest," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My ex-girlfriend was really into it." I think Ron was blushing,
      although it was hard to tell with the potions fumes obscuring his
      face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With an arrogant tilt to her chin, Hermione declared, "Everyone
      should care about oppression."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't actually care that much. I just like spending time with
      Harry," Ginevra clarified.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's horrible," I said. "Your brother is a werewolf."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am not!" Ron wailed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lupin slinked away during the ensuing argument. The whole
      incident was terribly upsetting. I was almost certain that Ron had
      come to terms with his lycanthropy. Giving up, I turned to
      Hermione. "You aren't going to believe this. Dumbledore got us
      presents."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I was right. Hermione didn't believe me at all. "Harry," she
      said delicately. "Dumbledore is dead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I beamed. "I know. I think I like him better this way. He never
      did this when he was alive."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione paled. "Um…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He left us stuff," Ron said. "Like, inheritance."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Us?" Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The three of us. Not Ginevra," I said. "Hardly surprising. He's
      never liked her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginevra pouted. "Really? I don't think we ever met."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That explains it, then," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione frowned. "I've barely spoken to him, myself. Have you,
      Ron?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron shook his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her brow wrinkled. "What did he give us?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You got a book" – I handed it to her – "because everyone knows
      you like reading, Ron got Dumbledore's wand, and I got a signet
      ring."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron swished the elder wood wand, causing weak, black sparks to
      fall out, and I flashed the Gaunt ring at her. Ron said, "The stuff
      came with a note, but Harry wouldn't let me read it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The note had said something along the lines of:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Harry,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Do not wear this ring. It is a Horcrux and will kill you.
      I'm speaking from personal experience. DO NOT PUT ON THE
      RING.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Good luck,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Albus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumbledore</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He said that the ring's one of our special items and wished us
      luck."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why'd you burn the note, then?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's sensitive information, Ron," I shouted. "If we keep it
      around, then anyone could find out this ring's importance!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron blushed with shame. On second thought, that might have been
      the slowly reddening mist. I made a note to check on that potion
      soon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You shouldn't take him on your trip," Ginevra said. "I'll be a
      better Ron."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginevra, we've been over this. We need your spy network."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Also, I don't like her that much.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I raised a hand, though I'm not sure if she saw it in the
      thickening mist. "Enough. Only Hermione and Ron shall accompany me
      to Potter Manor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione said, "Potter Manor?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My ancestral home, hidden for all these years," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…You've never seen it, have you?" Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I paused. "Well, no."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you <em class="calibre8">sure</em> you have a manor?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't all Pureblood families have manors?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, Harry," Hermione said. "That fad occurred during the
      twelfth century when wizarding families were concerned about
      possibly going under siege. That's why they have such extensive
      warding, and their larger grounds can be put to use for
      agricultural purposes. The Potter family isn't nearly old enough
      for that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron asked, "What about my manor?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lost to gambling debts. The Malfoys own it now," Hermione
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">My jaw fell open, and red mist drifted inside. It tasted vaguely
      of cinnamon. "Is <em class="calibre8">that</em> why you hate each other so
      much?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron said, "I guess. Mostly it's 'cause they're gits."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We were silent for a few moments, contemplating the ephemeral
      nature of history. At least, that's what I was thinking about. I'm
      fairly certain Hermione was, too. I don't know about the
      Weasleys.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione interrupted our musings, "Harry, if there isn't a
      Potter Manor. Then where are we going to stay?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The trunk, of course," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">My cauldron of Felix Felicis promptly exploded, knocking the
      trunk over and sending a rush of black smoke towards us.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginevra giggled. "I feel loads better about staying behind!"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">I woke up, muttering, "I always hated that name."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron and Hermione were still asleep. The girl hugged her wand
      like a teddy bear while the Weasley curled into a ball, as if to
      take up as little space as possible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The ceiling slid open to reveal starlight, and, dragging my
      cloak behind me, I trudged upwards. I waved it closed again as I
      settled invisibly onto the grass and said, "Voldemort."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pop! Pop!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two Death Eaters arrived, waving their wands around wildly in
      search of rebels. The taller one frowned, "There's no one
      here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's gotta be," the second grunted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe the Taboo machine's acting up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The shorter one jerked his head towards my home. "Or maybe
      they're in that trunk there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It seems pretty small," he mused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The other said, "Maybe it's one a' those magically expanded
      trunks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wouldn't go in there if it was!" he cried. "My cousin had one
      of those. The thing broke and we had to bury him in it!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The second snorted. "I know. I was at the funeral, too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe this is a test," the taller said slowly, "from the Dark
      Lord. Maybe he's trying to trick us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probly," the shorter said. "Bet we oughta take the trunk,
      though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wouldn't be so sure. It could be booby-trapped."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can't just head back," he snapped. "I mean,
      <em class="calibre8">somebody</em> around here said Voldemort!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pop! Pop!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two earlier Death Eaters raised their hands while their
      compatriots scanned the clearing for enemies.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Woah, woah, don't shoot. This moron here said Voldemort –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They all groaned. Pop! Pop!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One of the men from the second group raised a hand for silence.
      "Okay. Clearly somebody said Vol…the word that nobody's allowed to
      say."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They all breathed a sigh of relief. He continued, "Let's all
      agree to leave and not come back to this spot for a few minutes,
      alright?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Death Eaters nodded, popping away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I wandered back into the trunk, rousing Ron and Hermione. "Fair
      warning: We aren't allowed to say Voldemort, anymore. So, if you
      really want to say Voldemort, I'd suggest you say Voldemort now
      because, in about five minutes, we have to stop saying
      Voldemort."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a plain barn owl, brown and plump. A ribbon on its ankle
      identified it as a rented bird from Diagon Alley. It dropped the
      letter at my feet, not waiting for a response, and didn't even
      twitch as it passed through Grimmauld Place's wards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wingardium Leviosa," I said, the letter flicking upwards and
      unfolding in front of me. It read:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Dear Lord Voldemort,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">You may wonder why I, Harry Potter, have written you this
      letter. There are a few reasons for this.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">First, I would like to inform you that my associate has
      brewed a cauldron of polyjuice potion, while I have kidnapped
      several of your Death Eaters. Further, we just followed this owl to
      your base.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">By the time you've finished this letter, it will be too
      late.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Love,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Harry Potter</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">I leapt out of bed, humming merrily to myself. Hermione, for
      some inexplicable reason, immediately began panicking. She nearly
      tripped over our lamp (better known as Trelawney's prophecy orb) on
      her way towards me. Funny. I thought she'd finally relaxed about
      sleeping in the trunk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, why are you so happy?" she asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You-Know-Who's killing his own people!" I exclaimed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron groaned, dragging himself into a sitting position. "What did
      you do, mate?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I sent him a letter. He thinks we're breaking into his base.
      He'll probably calm down in a few days, but then I'll send him
      <em class="calibre8">another</em> letter," I said. "Come to think of it, we should
      probably break into Gringotts while he's distracted."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron let out a strangled squeak, and Hermione weakly asked,
      "Sorry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's where Bellatrix put Hufflepuff's Cup," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, this is…" – Hermione ran a hand through her hair, her
      face gaunt under the orb's bluish light – "Okay. We can do this.
      Let me get the Felix Felicis."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was clearly delusional with fear. I frowned. "Hermione,
      there isn't any Felix Felicis. You made me stop brewing it for some
      inane reason."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not <em class="calibre8">that</em> Felix Felicis," Hermione said. "I'm talking
      about the vial I got from Slughorn for brewing the best
      Amortentia."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron said, "You've still got that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She snorted, rummaging through her purse. "Of course. It's not
      like I just used it the day I got it. That would be highly
      irresponsible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To be fair, that <em class="calibre8">was</em> how I found the Chamber of Secrets
      in four hours by skipping five hints. My original Sixth Year was
      quite the adventure, though it could never compare to Third.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There it is," she cried, pulling out a golden vial. It
      shimmered in the light of the prophecy orb.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, are you still mad?" I whined, following my best
      minion through the busy London streets.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After several tense moments, Ron answered for her, "I'm pretty
      sure she is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I tossed the Cup of Hufflepuff between my hands, enjoying the
      familiar warmth of its golden sides. "Come on! We got the Cup, and
      everything went great…I know they're called the Unforgivables, but
      you can still forgive me. Preferably in the next thirty seconds or
      so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Get in the trunk," she snarled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I blinked, suddenly noticing the trunk propped against a
      lamppost. Right, Hermione had cast a Notice-Me-Not charm on it. I
      followed her inside. "I mean, really, would Moody have taught us
      the incantations if he didn't expect us to use –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She whirled around at the bottom of the staircase, wand aimed at
      my head. "You cast the Cruciatius Curse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"On a Death Eater," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her chin trembled. Typical Hermione: only accepting violent
      retribution when she does it. "It was cruel and horrible and
      unnecessary –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I contest that," I said. "You were taking Felix Felicis. If it
      wasn't necessary to our success, the potion wouldn't have let it
      happen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I refuse to believe that <em class="calibre8">torture</em> was necessary. There
      were any number of options," she said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come to think of it, isn't that potion supposed to give you
      your perfect day?" – my eyes widened – "Hermione, you don't
      actually <em class="calibre8">like</em> that sort of thing? In fact, you're probably
      still under its effects. You <em class="calibre8">want</em> this argument!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, she doesn't," Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione smiled. "Thank you, Ron. It's nice to see you have
      <em class="calibre8">some</em> faith in me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That was probably the Felix Felicis working.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He turned red. "I know I've fallen for a lot of stupid arguments
      and things, but I think I know you pretty well, 'Mione."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She flushed and glanced away, probably contemplating how her
      entire life was a ruse constructed by the Department of Mysteries.
      They were silent for some time, not even looking in my direction.
      It irked me.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know you're angry, but you don't have to ignore me," I said,
      the Cup's handle clenched in my fist.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, we're angry," Hermione said, pulling Ron into her
      mutiny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shook my head, frustrated by her disloyalty and hypocrisy. "I
      don't know why this is suddenly a problem. Nobody cared when Krum
      cast the Cruciatius."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She gaped, surprised by my brilliant arguing tactics. "He was
      under the Imperius."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I snorted. "Oh, sure he was. Everyone's under the Imperius. Tell
      me, Hermione, who are all these wizards casting the Imperius? Maybe
      we need to accept that the people we're looking for are the ones
      crucioing people."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, you, then?" Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shook my head, setting Hufflepuff's Cup on the coffee table.
      "No, of course not. I can't be held accountable for my actions.
      After all, <em class="calibre8">I</em> was under the Imperius."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Another letter sat upon my desk. I glared at the parchment hard
      enough to burn a hole through it, then frantically covered it with
      my cloak to smother the resulting flames. A reparo returned it to a
      legible state, and, slumping into my throne, I read:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Dear Lord Voldemort,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I see that you have once again failed to catch myself and my
      companions, despite killing several of your Death Eaters. I've
      noticed that this happens a lot with you, and I am compelled to ask
      if you just really like killing your own people.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Regardless, my sense of fair play urges me to once again
      inform you of our visit tomorrow.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Love,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Harry Potter</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">P.S. I would like to assure you that I shall not be
      masquerading as Lucius Malfoy.</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"You've killed him," Hermione whispered, eyes wide. "I know he's
      a bigot and probably a murderer, but I can't believe you just
      consigned a man to death."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That does seem pretty nasty, mate," Ron agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I had no idea what she was talking about. "Hermione, I have no
      idea what you're talking about."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lucius Malfoy!" she cried. "You just set him up to be
      killed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No I didn't. I specifically said that I <em class="calibre8">wouldn't</em> be
      him. He's probably the only one who's safe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione huffed, placing her hands on her hips. "Harry, you
      singled him out in a clearly sarcastic manner."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're overthinking things," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, that's what I think, too," Ron said, "and won't
      You-Know-Who overthink it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's possible, but, then, he'll probably just decide that I
      <em class="calibre8">want</em> him to kill Lucius Malfoy for some reason and refuse
      to touch him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But, what if he kills him just to be safe?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I rolled my eyes. "Fine. I'll ask him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron gaped. "You'll what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I raised a hand to silence the Weasley as I yanked Voldemort's
      consciousness into my head. "Yes or no question: Are you planning
      to kill Lucius Malfoy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a few moments' listening, I said, "I'm well aware that I
      told you I wouldn't be him. No, I don't retract that
      statement."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I turned to my minions. "He said he wasn't going to kill Lucius.
      Clearly, I was correct and…Why, yes, that is the Cup of Helga
      Hufflepuff. I'm not sure why you're surprised about this; Bellatrix
      has always been one of ours. On that note, have you seen your Diary
      anywhere recently? No reason. Just curious."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort slammed my head against the wall, then fled back to
      his body. Hermione was the first to find her voice. "Were you
      actually talking to He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wasn't talking to myself" – I paused for a moment, realizing
      that I was lying – "Regardless, he's gone now. And he's
      <em class="calibre8">really</em> upset about something."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">HOW COULD I NOT REMEMBER WHERE I'D LEFT MY SOUL?!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I struggled to calm myself, pacing Grimmauld Place's dining
      room. The table had been transfigured into a throne, and the room
      cleared for an emergency meeting of my Inner Circle. Surely, one of
      them had my boyhood diary.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">My eyes swept over the group, smaller now than it had ever been.
      It was for the better, I knew, cleared of traitors and spies. I
      turned to the most loyal of them all, Severus Snape. "Severus, did
      I ever give you a Dark artifact to watch over for me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus shook his head. "No, my lord. I'm afraid I was living in
      the same castle as Dumbledore. The risk was too great."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," I said. "Thank you for poisoning him, by the
      way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was my pleasure," he drawled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I presume you were in a similar situation, Hagrid?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hagrid nodded, silent as always. Some might have found this
      suspicious, but I knew how invested he was in our success. After
      all, Giants' Rights was a founding principle of the Death
      Eaters.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sirius, did I ever give <em class="calibre8">you</em> a small, black book?" I
      inquired.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius laughed. "Nah. You gave me a necklace."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">My hands unconsciously drifted to the locket around my neck.
      "Yes, I suppose I did…What about you, Lucius?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius said, "No, my lord. You've given me nothing at all.
      May…may I please go?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I frowned. "Why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I need to brush my hair," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Didn't you just do that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He shook his head, terribly mussing his blond locks. "Yes, but I
      need to do it again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a chuckle, I said, "You may go in a moment. Your son was
      trying to open the Room of Requirement, wasn't he?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, my lord, although he gave up on it some time ago."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tell him to complete whatever trials are necessary," I
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He nodded, increasingly pale as I delayed his time with a
      hairbrush. "Of course, my lord."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Also, alert your sources in Hogwarts that we're moving in. This
      location is no longer secure, and Trelawney has informed me that
      the castle will be a fortunate place for us."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Having houseguests, I found, could be rather tiring. Gone were
      the days of lounging in my trunk, brewing a few cauldrons of Felix
      Felicis and plotting against Dumbledore. Whenever the silence
      stretched for a while and I began to drift off to sleep under my
      invisibility cloak, someone invariably interrupted the peace.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Usually Ron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The redhead groaned. "Are you still reading that book?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I dragged my invisibility cloak off of my head in order to glare
      at him, and Hermione glanced up from <em class="calibre8">The Tales of Beedle the
      Bard</em>, lips pursed. "It's very informative –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's for kids!" he shouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She rolled her eyes. "Informative about cultural standards,
      Ronald. The morality tales told to children reveal a great deal
      about a society's values."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron blinked. "Wha?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Morality tales, Ronald," she said. "They teach Wizarding
      children what wizards think are important lessons."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For instance," I said. "The moral of <em class="calibre8">The Fountain of Fair
      Fortune</em> is that the magic was within you all along. The moral
      of <em class="calibre8">The Warlock's Hairy Heart</em> is that you shouldn't care
      what anyone else thinks of you. And the moral of <em class="calibre8">The Tale of
      the Three Brothers</em> is that you should be invisible at all
      times."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione frowned at me, as she often does. "That isn't the moral
      at all. It's that you can't cheat death."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really, Hermione? Did you even read the tale? It clearly states
      that the youngest brother spends his entire life under an
      invisibility cloak, only taking it off when he wanted to die. I'm
      not sure why he would have wanted that, though," I mused, pulling
      my cloak tightly around my shoulders.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron laughed. "Probly because he spent his whole life under an
      invisibility cloak."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's face reddened. "He did not –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"D'ya think he had kids under there?" Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is disgusting and –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He probably kept his entire family under the cloak, to prevent
      vengeance from Death," I said. It was what I would do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron said, "I bet they're still there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"IT WAS A METAPHOR!" Hermione shouted. Her voice echoed
      throughout the trunk, and Ron paled, likely reminded of his
      mother's Howlers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did the story <em class="calibre8">say</em> it was a metaphor?" I asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course not," she snapped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then how do you <em class="calibre8">know</em>?" I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Starting to sound like a Slytherin, mate," Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I brushed him off. "Actually, I'm sounding more like
      Dumbledore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Hermione said stiffly, "and he's the one who left me the
      book. I think it might be some sort of clue."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I snorted, falling back into bed with a thump. "He's obviously
      manipulating us. He's set us up on an adventure, and we won't
      understand half of it until he explains afterwards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He can't, though," Ron said. "He's dead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I rolled onto my side, mumbling, "He's got a portrait."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">It didn't take long to settle into my new office. I was
      perfectly content to keep Dumbledore's knickknacks and expensive
      pensieve. I wouldn't have minded the phoenix, either, but it had
      disappeared sometime before my arrival. I took a lemon drop from
      Dumbledore's tin, rolling it between my fingers. After many years,
      I finally had the chance to test it for poison.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus Snape swept into my office. "It appears that the
      students are rebelling."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why?" I asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because we are Death Eaters."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not an idiot," I snapped. "…but I will admit to continued
      confusion. I haven't done anything worth rebelling against."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dumbledore filled the Gryffindors' heads with ridiculous
      notions," Severus said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right, he always did favor them." I never understood where he
      got that bias. Dumbledore went to Durmstrang.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Hufflepuffs are following them, as they always do," he
      said, "and most of the Ravenclaws haven't even noticed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And the Slytherins?" I asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus smirked. "Passive aggressive, but that's probably
      because you killed their parents."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Potter killed some of them," I said modestly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Potter</em> did not publically take credit for their
      deaths."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In retrospect, I probably should have taken Bellatrix off of my
      Public Relations team prior to her revelation as a traitor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have you tried taking House Points?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus nodded. "I did, but they ran out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I snorted. "There's your problem. You lose all your power when
      they see they can't win."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's probably why they're so upset," Severus drawled. "Also,
      the Carrows have been crucioing First Years."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I'd expected the Carrows to be incompetent, but this was
      actively hurting the learning environment. Clearly, they would have
      to go.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I scowled, waving Severus away with a request to send up Sirius
      and the Malfoys.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They arrived quickly. The Malfoys were pale and nervous, but
      Sirius retained the relaxed demeanor that had earned him his place
      at my right hand. I smiled, Lucius flinched, and I smiled wider in
      response. "Sirius, would you like to be the Muggle Studies
      professor?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He shrugged. "Yeah, sure."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then I shall be the Defense Against the Dark Arts professor," I
      declared, staring dreamily at the ceiling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's a great idea!" Sirius said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius, displaying his pessimistic nature, said, "Are you…sure
      about this, my lord?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius smirked. "What? You think he'll be a bad professor?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, of course not," Lucius said. "I was simply concerned that
      he might be distracted from other goals. Like running Wizarding
      Britain."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You underestimate me," I said coldly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think you'll be brilliant, my lord!" the younger one blurted
      out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I chuckled, rising from my desk to approach him. "Ah, Draco.
      I've been meaning to speak with you. How go the trials?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco peered intently at his toes. "I'm, uh…stuck."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I raised an eyebrow. "Stuck?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't get into the Girls' Dormitory for the next key piece.
      There are wards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I clenched my wand in annoyance. "For Merlin's sake, you're a
      wizard! Turn yourself into a girl. I can think of three ways off
      the top of my head."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco looked pale. "Oh…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or you could befriend a girl and have her do it" – I waved my
      wand around for emphasis – "Then you'll find out about friendship
      or something. What's important is that you find a lesson and learn
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Th-thank you," he said, voice trembling along with the rest of
      his body.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can leave, now," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Malfoy clone scurried away, likely planning to join his
      classmates' rebellion. I shook my head and turned my attention back
      to Dumbledore's lemon drops.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><span>A Bird's Eye View: Fawkes POV</span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">I landed upon the Apprentice's shoulder. The muscle beneath me
      was tensed, the shiny sword raised for battle. It pleased my eyes,
      and I sang in support. The Red one covered her ears, revealing her
      corruption to the world. But the others did not understand
      this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Evil filled their nest. It was in the Apprentice's nature to
      fight it. I am the same.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For now, I would aid him. Lunge at the evil ones. Claw out their
      eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But the Apprentice did not need me. He was too noble. He would
      do the right thing without being watched.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">My Old Roost was dead and my New Roost gone. The New Roost would
      return, as he always did. When he came, I would be there to ensure
      that he denied his darker nature.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I feared what he would do if I was not there. Watching.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
