<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter Seventh Horcrux - Seventh Horcrux Chapter 18: HP vs Himself (Pt 2), a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter Seventh Horcrux"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s18" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 18: HP vs Himself (Pt 2)</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Seventh Horcrux</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span>Chapter 9: Harry Potter vs. Himself (Pt. 2)</span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron woke slowly. He found himself unable to rise and meet the
      day, partially because he was still drowsy and partially because he
      was tied up in the middle of our trunk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"G-guys?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I took a leisurely walk around his captured form. My
      invisibility cloak ensured that he heard only measured footsteps
      and an eerie voice. "I always knew that you would betray us. Did
      you really believe that we wouldn't find out, Ron?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Find out what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You've been sneaking out of the trunk, carefully avoiding my
      traps. But you were foolish. Hermione saw you returning. This
      wouldn't have been a problem, of course, if you had been
      invisible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In her ominous, shadowy corner, Hermione groaned. "You do have
      to take off the cloak sometime."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really? That's what the youngest brother did, and then he
      died," I spat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stepped into the light, glaring at me instead of Ron.
      "<em class="calibre8">Anyway,</em> if you have an explanation, Ronald, now would be
      a good time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know you can't see it right now, but my wand is pointing
      right at you," I helpfully added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've been sending letters," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Traitorous</em> letters?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hush, Harry," Hermione said. "Who are you sending letters
      to?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh…Fenrir Greyback," Ron muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I knew it! Also, who is that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A vicious werewolf who follows You-Know-Who," Hermione said,
      frowning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're sort of pen pals, now," Ron said, struggling against his
      ropes (or possibly attempting to shrug). "He's got some really good
      points, actually."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione gaped at him. "He bites children!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I said <em class="calibre8">some</em>. Also, he only went after Wizarding kids
      'cause he wanted to change cultural perceptions about werewolves by
      forcing prominent Purebloods to face the issue" – Ron paused for a
      moment – "I think that's a quote."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But Remus –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm writing to him, too," Ron said. "Also my Mum. She worries,
      and I don't want any more Howlers."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I nodded. "She almost got us killed that one time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron grinned, either at my remark or Hermione's gullible decision
      to free him from the ropes. "I know you don't really understand
      parents, Harry, but she's really stressed out about all this.
      Especially pretending I have Dragon Pox. I bet Hermione's parents
      are going barmy, too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione peered intently down at her wand, perhaps checking it
      for tampering. "Actually, they don't remember that they have a
      daughter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, the Dursleys did that sometimes," I commiserated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, that's horrible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe for you. I thought it was great."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tears filled Hermione's eyes. "It…it isn't like that! They
      aren't abusive like your family. I erased their memories."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron's eyes widened. "Why would you…?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They wouldn't have gone to Australia if they knew I was still
      in England, but they simply aren't safe here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione…that's evil," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The brunette whirled around to glare at me, wand raised. "Will
      you stop saying things like that?!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But it is. You turned them into completely different people so
      that you could ignore their explicit wishes. Hermione, you murdered
      your parents." Even I didn't murder <em class="calibre8">all</em> of my parents.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll set them right afterwards," she said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unless you die," Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was as if her vocal cords had been hit with a shriveling
      curse, leaving her voice small and childlike. "You guys can do it,
      then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm terrible at memory charms, and do you really trust Ron with
      your parents' brains?" I asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey!" Ron said. "…But you're sort of right. I don't know
      anything about memory charms."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione desperately tried to justify her despicable act.
      "It…it's better this way. They're safe from You-Know-Who."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her reasoning baffled me. "Hermione, the Death Eaters don't care
      about your parents. How would they even know where they live? I've
      spent a couple of summers there, and even I don't know where they
      live."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But they could still be caught in a raid or something," she
      mumbled, hugging herself tightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That seems fairly unlikely," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We were silent for some time. Eventually, Ron said, "What do we
      do now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We haven't captured Nagini yet," Hermione said. "Separating her
      from You-Know-Who could be difficult."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is a priority," I agreed. "First, however, we have to go
      to Australia to fix Hermione's terrible mistake."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Though our long and dangerous mission into the outback was
      successful, Hermione had retreated into our trunk to sob into her
      pillow. "I'm evil. I'm actually evil."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron was above us, comforting the Grangers and – if the situation
      called for it – obliviating them of Hermione's confession. That
      left me to calm down the most vicious member of our trio.
      "So…you're evil."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She wailed, burying her face further into the downy fabric. I
      continued, "That's not a bad thing. Plenty of people are evil, and
      they live perfectly good lives. Like Dumbledore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione lifted her head, watching me with blank, red eyes.
      "Dumbledore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, he was best friends with Grindelwald when they were kids,
      but then Dumbledore killed him," I said. "He didn't kill any of his
      other friends, however, which shows his great self-restraint."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's something wrong with you," she said into her
      pillow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I glanced around, casually checking for listeners, before
      admitting. "Hermione, much like you, my nature is also somewhat
      evil. But I channel that evil into constructive aims like murdering
      the Dark Lord. We should probably get back to that, by the way.
      It's been a few weeks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But what if <em class="calibre8">I'm</em> the next Dark Lord?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think You-Know-Who will like that very much. You'll
      have to kill him anyway," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione giggled, smiling up at me. I don't know what was funny
      about that, but I took it as a good sign.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I continued, "You'll be fine so long as you listen to your
      friends when they tell you that you're committing an atrocity.
      Then, later, when you're the Dark Lady of Wizarding Britain, you
      reward them by making them the Headmaster of Hogwarts."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius Black twirled his wand between his fingers, eyes making a
      lazy sweep over the panicked denizens of Diagon Alley. Timid
      shopkeepers peered at the group of Death Eaters from windows and
      doorways, a woman screeched and flailed under the Cruciatius, and
      Nagini sprawled in the sun, a humanoid bulge in her stomach.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Black groaned. "Right, five minutes and I'm already bored. Any
      chance we can head back?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort said, "I'm surprised at you, Black. I distinctly
      recall your enthusiasm for raids."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He shrugged. "Eh, I've got papers to grade and six kids in for
      detention tonight. Having a job kinda sucks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a loud groan from inside Nagini. At that moment, I
      stepped into view, and Voldemort hissed, "Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hi, Tom," I said, approaching the Dark Lord and his right-hand
      man.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He sneered at me. "Don't call me by that name."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You've made it impossible to say your old name, and I can't
      just call you You-Know-Who. That would be silly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort thoughtfully tapped his chin with his wand. "You could
      call me 'my lord.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I suppose I could, but that would be untrue."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Show some respect for your betters!" a Death Eater shouted as
      he jabbed his wand at me. "Imperio."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For a moment, there was a distortion in my vision and everything
      seemed very bright. It ended as the Death Eater barked, "Bow to
      him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I gave the man a bored look. "Crucio."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He fell, wailing, to the ground. I smirked. "You should show
      respect for <em class="calibre8">your</em> betters."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort laughed, and Black also cracked an uneasy grin. "That
      was a good one. So, have you come here to protect these miserable
      excuses for witches and wizards?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Actually, no," I said. "I just needed to grab something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Red light filled the alleyway. The Death Eaters, shopkeepers,
      shoppers and even I watched, stunned, as the light receded and Ron
      hauled Nagini up by the neck. Hermione, shaking herself into
      action, grabbed the snake's tail and apparated them away. With a
      cheerful wave towards Voldemort and his right hand man, I
      followed.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Where am I?"</em> Nagini hissed several hours later. Ron's
      stunner was truly astounding.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"You're at your new home,"</em> I said. <em class="calibre8">"Welcome to the
      trunk. You're following me, now."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The snake backed up. <em class="calibre8">"Why?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"I can talk to you."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She sniffed anxiously at the air. <em class="calibre8">"That is true, but you are
      not my master."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">I raised an eyebrow. <em class="calibre8">"Are you sure?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"…Less so now."</em> Nagini said and slithered towards my
      feet. I patted her head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're taking the piss out of me," Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione frowned. "How did you just do that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I explained that I was the superior Parselmouth," I said. "She
      argued, but soon realized that I was right and has endeavored to do
      exactly as I say…I think we can all learn a lot from Nagini."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron laughed, still daydreaming about our successful raid. "I
      can't believe you were actually bait for once!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I smirked. "I was more of a distraction."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you completely ignored that Imperius."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then crucioed the caster," Hermione said, still judgmental
      despite coming to terms with her own evil, "and I suppose you're
      going to say that you have an insane amount of willpower because
      you're the descendant of Merlin or something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I chuckled. "No, no, there's a trick to it, actually. You can't
      be affected by two Imperiuses at once."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron blinked. "What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I attempted to lower my speaking to Weasley levels. "If you're
      under the Imperius from one person, then a new Imperius won't make
      you do things."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione nibbled her lip. "You were under the Imperius?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I <em class="calibre8">am</em> under the Imperius," I said, pointing my wand at
      my temple.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You…why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I stroked Nagini, who was currently curled around my leg,
      squeezing affectionately. "To protect me from the Imperius, of
      course. I just order myself to do whatever I want, so it doesn't
      really affect me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron said, "So, when you said that you couldn't be blamed for
      crucioing that guy 'cause you were under the Imperius, you weren't
      joking?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why would I joke about something like that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's eyes were wide with wonder and admiration. "Harry,
      how long have you been doing this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"On and off since I learned about the spell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Three years?" she squeaked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">More like sixty. "…Yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That cannot be healthy," she muttered. "Take it off,
      please."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I did so, and Hermione stole my wand.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The sink unfolded, revealing the shadowed and slimy entrance to
      the Chamber of Secrets. Draco Malfoy peered into the darkness,
      keeping his feet firmly on the tiles of the Girls' Loo. "I suppose
      this explains a lot. I was starting to think that Potter was a
      pervert."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I nodded. "Yes. The current location of the Chamber is an
      unfortunate consequence of the constantly-shifting nature of
      Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco seemed troubled. "This doesn't make sense, though. How can
      one of the trials <em class="calibre8">require</em> a Parselmouth? The other ones at
      least pretended to be fair."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I snorted. "You don't need to be a Parselmouth to open it. There
      are only like four syllables in Parseltongue, random hissing would
      probably crack it eventually."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was shocked silent at my brilliance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Besides," I continued, "It's not unfair that you needed a
      Parselmouth because one was there. Perhaps…one will always be
      there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco took a step into the Chamber. "Thank you, my lord."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've told you: Call me Professor," I said. "Also, good luck
      with the Basilisk!"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, please give me my wand back," I begged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione held my wand above her head, using her height advantage
      against me. "Not until I'm sure that you won't cast an Unforgivable
      on yourself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I took a step upon the worn, wooden floor and placed a hand on
      her shoulder. "What? No. Why would I cast an Unforgivable on
      myself? That would be ridiculous. Give me the wand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She groaned, my wand clenched firmly in her hands.
      "<em class="calibre8">No.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can feel my magical core draining."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There hasn't been a theory of magic that even
      <em class="calibre8">postulated</em> magical cores since the seventeenth century" –
      Hermione furrowed her brow – "I'm honestly not sure where you would
      have heard about them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, I am begging you –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She glared at me. "Will you <em class="calibre8">stop</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll never stop. You'll have to imperio me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will not," she ground out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll set Nagini on you," I said. <em class="calibre8">"Nagini, hiss at
      Hermione."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nagini hissed, and Hermione swallowed heavily. "You
      wouldn't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…You're right," I mumbled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione blinked. "Really?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I whirled around to my other minion. "Ron, give me Dumbledore's
      wand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron's freckles stood darkly against his white face. "Uh, can't.
      Sorry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You aren't even using it!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not a very good match for me," he mumbled. "But I still
      can't give it to you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't let Hermione bully you into denying me this," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Honestly! Will you stop trying to manipulate Ron" – Hermione
      raised a hand to keep me silent – "and, no, I am not going to stop
      you with the Imperius just because you have some sort of
      addiction."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I glared at my traitorous followers. "I am not addicted. It's
      just that everything is terrible, now. The colors are too bright
      and the light is sharper and I feel guilty about everything…Oh
      Merlin, is this how you feel all the time?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, no?" Ron denied his suffering, but I could see the truth in
      his eyes. Wait, had they always been blue?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione pinched the bridge of her nose, wild hair drifting over
      her eyes. "I'm sorry, Harry, but you'll just have to ride out
      this…whatever this is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was wrong, I suddenly realized. I raced towards the cupboard
      and dug through my robes. With a triumphant cry, I unearthed a wand
      and held it aloft.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione frowned, and, with a twirl of her wand, said
      "Expelliarmus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I whimpered. Hermione examined the wand with a gentle frown.
      "Where did you even get this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I stole it from Neville. The reason doesn't even make sense
      now" – I paused for a moment – "Do you think I should give it
      back?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron frowned. "Uh, maybe when you're acting less crazy…or, at
      least, more <em class="calibre8">your</em> kind of crazy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shook my head, summoning my wand from Hermione's grasp with a
      flick of my wrist. "No, we have to go to Hogwarts. It's the only
      way to defeat the Dark Lord. He's killing people right now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione said, "Harry –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right now. I can hear the screaming. It's kind of creeping me
      out. Besides, I <em class="calibre8">really</em> need to return Neville's wand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione sighed. "Alright."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron scrambled towards the trunk's desk in search of parchment.
      "I'll owl Ginny."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">We followed Pansy Parkinson and…Crabbe through the secret
      passageway, Ron sulking and eying the Slytherins with suspicion.
      "Probly leading us into a trap, bloody Death Eaters in
      training."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione said, "Ronald, stop antagonizing our allies."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think they're really our allies," he said. "Why would
      Ginny send a bunch of Slytherins to get us?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Parkinson flipped her dark hair dismissively. "Perhaps because
      we're the only ones who can travel unwatched in Hogsmeade?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron kicked a rodent's skull, sending it skittering into the
      darkness. "I'm just saying we should've gotten a passcode or
      something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then you would be claiming that they'd intercepted our mail,"
      Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I trailed behind them, comfortably invisible as I pulled along
      our trunk. "It's possible they still did. That's why they were able
      to so seamlessly intercept our meeting, leading us ever-closer to
      our doom."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione, showing a shocking lack of caution, snapped, "Harry,
      will you stop encouraging him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron scowled. "I just don't get why a bunch of Slytherins would
      help us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Parkinson disdainfully glanced at the slime dripping from the
      walls and the Weasley walking behind her. "I'm beginning to wonder
      that, as well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"See?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Crabbe grunted, "The Dark Lord killed my father."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Was that my fault? That might have been one of my killing
      curses. I shrugged off the question. "That monster."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The hulking boy sniffled. "Everything's worse with him
      here…'Cept the Creature Rights' laws. Those are very
      progressive."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're a travesty, if you ask me," Parkinson said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nobody did," Ron snapped. "Why are <em class="calibre8">you</em> helping,
      anyway?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I owe Ginny a favor. Besides, Harry <em class="calibre8">is</em> an honorary
      Slytherin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron paled. "He's a what, now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Parkinson smirked, a slight sway in her step. "Oh, yes. He did
      win us the House Cup, in Third Year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But that doesn't make him –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Snape thinks it does," she purred. "Of course, he thinks that
      <em class="calibre8">everyone</em> who beats him at something is supposed to be in
      Slytherin. That man takes house loyalty way too far."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I feel obligated to point out that, though I have the best
      traits of all four houses, I am more brave and noble than all of
      them combined," I announced.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione rolled her eyes. Ron said, "That can't be it, though.
      There's gotta be some other reason –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A slim figure stepped out of the darkness, red hair dazzling
      under our lumos. "They've been a lot more helpful since I explained
      that I'm the Heiress of Slytherin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron's jaw dropped. "Ginny?!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hi guys!" Ginevra chirped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione smiled. "How are you doing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Great! We've taken back most of the classrooms, three of the
      common rooms, and possibly the North Tower, depending on whether or
      not Trelawney's still a Death Eater."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I guess you still haven't got the snake's den," Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope. That was easy," Ginevra said. "The problem is that we
      lost Hufflepuff."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Castle moved after the Death Eaters showed up," Crabbe
      grunted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I had to share a bedroom with six Puffs." Parkinson shivered
      with perfectly justifiable disgust.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginevra said, "We're staging expeditions into the dungeons to
      find it, but no luck so far."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Slytherins departed as we entered an enormous room. Piles of
      rubble leaned against its filthy walls, and beds were scattered
      about the rock floor, some holding bandaged and unconscious
      students. The Chamber of Secrets had certainly changed since the
      last time I'd visited.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We passed several cauldrons as we walked. I peered into one.
      "Felix Felicis?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville approached us, grinning. "I figured we needed all the
      luck we could get."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, Nev!" one of the injured students yelled. "Get away from
      the potions before they have another go at 'cha."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Neville makes the potions explode just by looking at them,"
      Ginevra explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville laughed, and the Sword of Gryffindor banged against his
      side with each guffaw. "Came in handy in the Potions classroom that
      one time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An arm crawled over Neville's shoulder and down his chest, and
      Lavender's face appeared in the crook of his neck. "You shouldn't
      stay here too long, Nevi, sweetie."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stepped forward to protect Ron from the potential
      explosion. Not surprising, her shield has always been superior. She
      regarded Lavender coolly. "You're dating Neville now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think he is just sooo brave for taking on all those Death
      Eaters," she cooed. "Also, he's got the Sword of Gryffindor, so
      he's the bravest guy in the whole wide world!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I could have the Sword of Gryffindor," Ron muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione elbowed him, and he smiled nervously. I shoved
      Neville's old wand at his chest. "This is yours. I found it in my
      trunk and was compelled by my inherent nobility to return it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville stared down at it, smiling softly. "Wow. Thanks. I don't
      really use magic much, and my new wand's a better match, anyway.
      But this was my Dad's. Good to have it back."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I nodded. "Yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginevra spun in place, short hair twirling around her head like
      a dress. "Welcome to the Chamber of Secrets!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione glanced around. "So you're really the Heiress? I'd just
      assumed you had caught Harry's sense of humor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course I am," Ginevra said. "I command the Basilisk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She hissed, <em class="calibre8">"Come."</em> Or possibly "<em class="calibre8">Strangle</em>."
      Her accent was terrible. The Basilisk slithered towards us,
      students scrambling out of its way. It came to rest beside Ginevra,
      eyes closed and waiting for instructions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Go sleep twice,"</em> Ginevra said. <em class="calibre8">"Only need look
      terrifying."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">I would like to reiterate the horror that was Ginevra Weasley
      attempting to speak Parseltongue. The Basilisk silently accepted
      this butchery of the language, returning to an empty corner where
      it curled into a ball.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron had the look of a man whose entire world had been destroyed,
      and even Hermione appeared a bit faint. I responded in the only way
      I knew how, "Hah! I told you I wasn't the Heir."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">What a fool I had been. I'd let my guard down in enemy
      territory, and, now, here I was: Cornered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I eased my hand towards my pocket, hoping I could reach my wand
      before she did any irreparable damage. But, no, my plan had been
      foreseen and my arm grabbed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, I just wanted to thank you for giving me a second
      chance," Ginevra said. "You know, back in my First Year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I frowned, unsure of how she'd come to this conclusion. Ginevra
      Weasley was being possessed by my younger self while opening the
      Chamber of Secrets. At least, I think she was. "You remember being
      the Heir?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her lips flitted upwards, and she murmured, "Bits and pieces.
      The bathroom. The Chamber. Speaking Parseltongue. You."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She squeezed my arm a little tighter, and her voice softened to
      a whisper. "I've reformed. I really have, but sometimes I
      <em class="calibre8">still</em> think about killing Muggleborns."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's perfectly natural," I assured her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginevra giggled. "That's what Pansy says, too. Anyways, I just
      wanted to thank you for not sending me to Azkaban and…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Using her height advantage against me, Ginevra leaned forward.
      Her breath fanned my lips. "…tell you that…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I jerked away. "You're very welcome. However, I need to go kill
      Voldemort. Goodbye!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Grabbing Hermione, I fled towards the Girls' Loo.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"We should have gotten Ron," Hermione muttered as we hurried
      through the hallways.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shook my head. "There wasn't time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione raised an eyebrow. "What do you mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I mentally shoved away images of Ginevra, though they would no
      doubt haunt my nightmares for years to come. "We need to get the
      Diadem of Ravenclaw."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So we couldn't wait thirty seconds to call over Ron?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Exactly. This is a quick, easy mission, and getting Ron would
      take more time than bringing him would save. Besides, someone has
      to watch the trunk, and, frankly, it's hard enough fitting
      <em class="calibre8">you</em> under the cloak." I pulled at the starry fabric
      surrounding us. If Hermione didn't hunch forward, the passing Death
      Eaters could see our shoes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We reached the third floor, and I began pacing. Hermione asked,
      "The Diadem is in the Room of Requirement?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I turned on my heel, heading back up the hallway. "Technically,
      everything that's in Hogwarts is in the Room, if you wish for it
      hard enough."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione rolled her eyes. "Didn't you lock that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I did," I said. "But I can get in."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I finished pacing, and an impressive, oak door shimmered into
      existence. A silvery lock sat in its center. I sauntered up to it.
      "All I need is faith in myself, which I have in abundance, and to
      have learned lessons from the trials. Thankfully, I set up the
      trials, so I already know everything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course you do," Hermione muttered from close behind me.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I turned the knob and –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Click.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I turned the knob again. And again. It didn't open.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright, new plan," I said. "We need to convert Malfoy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"WE WHAT?!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's already done half the trials. With our help, he could be
      through the door in hours…I suppose it would be too much to ask for
      you to charm him with your feminine wiles?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She groaned. "Harry, that's…<em class="calibre8">no</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I leaned against the wall, the stone's chill dulled by my cloak.
      "Right, right. The break-up's still too fresh. That's fine. Draco
      is rebellious enough without your influence."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When has Malfoy <em class="calibre8">ever</em> rebelled?" Hermione said. "He
      practically worships his father."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And yet his hair tells another story," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione blinked, her mind slowly churning over my amazing
      deduction. "His…I'm sorry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lucius Malfoy is very proud of his long, luxurious hair. He
      even cloned himself just to ensure its continued existence, yet
      what has Draco done? Cut it and hardened it with harsh gels. If
      Draco was truly so devoted to his father, why would he spit upon
      his very reason for existence?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione buried her face in her hands. "I think I liked this
      plan better before you explained it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I grinned and took off towards the Dungeons. "Let's go find
      Malfoy."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">A/N: It's common in fanon for snakes to obey
      Parselmouths for very flimsy reasons. At first, this seemed silly.
      Then, I realized something:</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">If, while walking down the street one day, a cat turned
      to me and said, "Hand me your umbrella," I would give the cat the
      bloody umbrella. You don't just ignore the talking animal. That's
      the very foundation of magical girl series…</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Also, I sometimes think that my Tom Riddle is merely a
      series of bad decisions executed well.</strong></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
