<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter Seventh Horcrux - Seventh Horcrux Chapter 20: Epilogue: Thirteen Years Later, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter Seventh Horcrux"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s20" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 20: Epilogue: Thirteen Years Later</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Seventh Horcrux</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span>Epilogue: Thirteen Years Later</span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The first day of school had arrived yet again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The students were unusually awake this year, buzzing about the
      previous night's Sorting and constructing all sorts of wild tales.
      After all, it had been thirteen years since anyone had been placed
      in Slytherin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As I passed the green-clothed table, I nodded to the solitary
      figure picking at her toast and received a weak grin in return.
      This set off a new round of whispering.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius Black gave a large wave and beckoned for me to sit beside
      him at the staff table. I'm not certain why we kept him on as the
      Muggle Studies professor after the war. I don't think he's ever met
      a Muggle that he wasn't murdering.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">People said that Black was a spy for Dumbledore, but I'm not so
      sure about that. It seems like the old man had an awful lot of
      spies: Sirius, Severus, Hagrid…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I'm pretty sure Lucius Malfoy wasn't a spy for Dumbledore, but
      he got off, too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I avoided Sirius's gaze, still uneasy about his wild and
      unpredictable temperament, and he moved on to a closer target:
      Headmaster Snape.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I, instead, took a seat between Minerva McGonagall and Ginevra,
      our History of Magic professor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Weasley took the post after Binns passed on twelve years
      ago. It was completely unexpected, and, after so many years of his
      abysmal teaching, no one was really qualified for the job. Luckily,
      Ginevra had lesson plans and everything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Many assume that Binns's unfinished business had something to do
      with Voldemort's demise. That seemed strange to me, since he was
      teaching for generations before I came along. Maybe he just longed
      to see one last war.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In all likelihood, he wanted something inane that no one else
      would have noticed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginevra held up the Prophet, exclaiming, "Hermione won!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course she did. Hermione would never let anything get in the
      way of her ruthless ambition."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione, upon graduation, returned to the Department of
      Mysteries. After our adventures, however, she began to find the
      work unfulfilling and returned to her childhood dream of becoming
      the Dark Lady of Wizarding Britain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her husband Ron became a Werewolf Rights activist. Of course,
      there was a terrible scandal a few years ago, when it turned out
      that he wasn't actually a werewolf and had been lying to us all. I,
      for one, was shocked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginevra leaned over to straighten my tie and remarked, "Looks
      like Neville got engaged to another princess."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ah, yes, my apprentice: A man lauded as the next Gilderoy
      Lockhart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I tapped my wand against my chin. "Is he still fighting Dark
      Lords in Albania?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginevra shrugged. "Hard to say. It's a Skeeter article, and
      Neville refuses to comment. Aside from mentioning that you were his
      teacher, of course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At a table below, a young Gryffindor disappeared behind the
      latest edition of the Quibbler, and I reminisced about Luna, who
      set off in search of Atlantis some years ago, never to be seen
      again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some say that she found the lost city.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I prefer to believe that she's dead because that excuses her for
      never writing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As for me, well, everyone always knew where I would end up…</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The First Years peered around my classroom, which was decorated
      with souvenirs from my various victories, my Order of Merlin, a
      drowsing Nagini, and a phoenix tensed for attack. As minutes slowly
      passed by, they grew increasingly anxious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Finch-Flechley girl, idly tugging at her braided hair,
      remarked, "We should just leave."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can't do that," Adrian Pucey Jr. protested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She sniffed disdainfully, adjusting her glasses. "If he can't be
      bothered to show up, then why should we?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's probably just running late! If we run off, then we'll lose
      a ton of points."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Rose isn't here," Zabini said. "Do you think she knows
      something we don't?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The newest Malfoy clone yawned, reluctantly lifting his head
      from the table. "She's sick."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really? I've heard she's too afraid to show her face after last
      night," Finch-Flechley purred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy glared. "<em class="calibre8">She is sick</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I bet she's crying her eyes out right now. I certainly would
      be, if I were her…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The blond leapt to his feet, wand in hand. "Shut up, Finch."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She drew her own wand. "Finch? Is that <em class="calibre8">really</em> the best
      you can do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry, I couldn't think of anything stupider than your
      name."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The few giggling students were silenced by Finch-Flechley's
      glare. "Listen here, you simpering, Slytherin-wannabe –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her wand began to glow with a spell, so I accioed it, along with
      the Malfoy's holly one. The students watched, awed by my sudden
      appearance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"P-Professor!" Finch-Flechley said. "I didn't see you
      there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course not. I was invisible. I'm always invisible. And
      watching you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The students simultaneously shuddered. I sighed. "I'm very
      disappointed in you both for fighting like this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy said, "But, Professor Potter –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thirty points from Gryffindor for this outrageous spectacle," I
      finished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two traded a confused look, earlier enmity forgotten. The
      girl said, "We're Hufflepuffs."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I raised a finger to my lips. "Shhhh. Nobody needs to know
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is the Hufflepuff class," Pucey said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I raised an eyebrow. "The Hufflepuff <em class="calibre8">and</em> Slytherin
      class."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, yeah, but Rose is out," one of the Muggleborns said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She's sick," Malfoy added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I gestured towards the right half of the classroom. "Take a
      seat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do we <em class="calibre8">have</em> to sit on the Hufflepuff side, sir?" Pucey
      asked as they squeezed onto the benches.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I frowned, surveying the class. Hufflepuff had benefited from
      Slytherin's fall, swelling to one and a half times its original
      size and becoming the largest Hogwarts house. In a few years, they
      might even have a chance at the Cup.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose not," I said. "I must warn you, however, that
      traveling to the Slytherin side may be considered traitorous to
      your house. Who's first?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Zabini moved reluctantly, yet, soon, the group was equally
      split. In fairness, it was very crowded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was a clever idea, Mr. Pucey. Fifty points to
      Ravenclaw!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While my system isn't perfect, it's still fairer than what Snape
      used to do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fawkes landed on my shoulder as I said, "I have yet to formally
      welcome you all to Defense Against the Dark Arts with Professor
      Potter. Some of you may know me as Harry Potter, the man who
      defeated the Dark Lord Voldemort. If you do not know me, I'm Harry
      Potter. I defeated Voldemort."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were a few appreciative murmurs, although not nearly as
      many as I had once received. Time, it seemed, had dulled the
      grandeur of my achievements. These children had only known
      peace.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I continued, "Now, on to our lesson: The basilisk has gone mad,
      attacking everyone regardless of blood status. Merely to gaze into
      its eyes means immediate death. Zabini, WHAT DO YOU DO?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Zabini's black eyes widened in panic. "Wh-what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I paused. The correct answer was to use a mirror to Petrify
      yourself. Though this does nothing to defeat the basilisk, that's
      already a lost cause, and at least you're safe. Perhaps that was
      too advanced for our first class. Turning to Pucey, I said, "The
      Merpeople drag you into the Lake –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pucey wrinkled his brow in a very Weasley fashion. "Merpeople
      very rarely venture towards the surface. Why would they attack
      someone on land?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I waved his concerns aside. "They want some sort of inexplicable
      vengeance. You try to ask them about it, but water floods your
      mouth before you can say a word. The last of your air is gone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Finch-Flechley regarded me coldly from behind her glasses. "This
      is stupid. None of this will ever happen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You want something more mundane? Fine," I snapped. "You,
      Finch-Flechley, fall from the moving staircase. You have the next
      three seconds before your neck snaps on the stone below."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The girl gaped. "That actually happened?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The last incident was in May. Mr. Abbott saved himself, but you
      just used <em class="calibre8">your</em> three seconds to ask a question…Does
      <em class="calibre8">anyone else</em> know what to do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A timid redhead raised her hand. "The Levitation Charm,
      maybe?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very good, Miss...?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Puttock, sir," she whispered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I nodded. "Do any of you know how to perform the Levitation
      Charm?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Puttock's hand darted downwards, and only a few other students
      rose theirs. I said, "Then I suppose we'll have to learn it, won't
      we?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Hufflepuffs nodded, some more eagerly than others.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shall spend the rest of eternity as the Defense Against the
      Dark Arts professor at Hogwarts. Of course, I would have to explain
      my immortality to avoid the inevitable rumors…and, first, I should
      ensure that I am actually immortal.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Come to think of it, whatever did happen to the Philosopher's
      Stone?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As I weaved through my students, helping the clumsier ones with
      their wandwork, I decided to subtly inquire about the artifact.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, Snape, whatever did happen to the Philosopher's Stone?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus regarded me from across the Headmaster's desk. "It is in
      the Mirror of Erised. Apparently, you can only get it out if you
      don't want it. But everyone does because it makes you immortal.
      Even if we don't tell them what it is, they still want it because
      we asked them to get it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I frowned. "Did you try getting a student to do it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You<em class="calibre8">.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hm. That hardly counted, since I was actively out to steal the
      Stone, at the time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">My eyes trailed across the office, now devoid of spinning
      knickknacks and well-polished candy bowls. The visitor's chair had
      clearly received a Discomfort Charm or two, and even the old
      Headmasters' portraits had worn around the edges after increasingly
      vicious attempts to tear them from the walls. Dumbledore watched us
      with a knowing gleam in his eyes, and, on a shelf below him, the
      Sorting Hat leaned forward to better eavesdrop.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus interrupted my thoughtful silence. "Not one day under
      your care, and Miss Weasley has already started skipping classes.
      I'm not sure why I'm surprised."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I said, "Frankly, I'm not even sure why you made me the Head of
      Slytherin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because you are the only Slytherin on staff."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm a Gryffindor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus raised an eyebrow. "Potter, even the Hat thinks you are
      a Slytherin, and the Hat doesn't think <em class="calibre8">anyone</em> is a
      Slytherin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I snorted. "It's clearly screwing with us. Hat, what house does
      Snape belong in?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Sorting Hat's face crumpled into a wide smile. "Severus
      Snape is a true <em class="calibre8">Gryffindor.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I very much agree," Dumbledore's portrait said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus tossed a Silencing Spell over his shoulder, while
      Dumbledore ducked into Phineas Nigellus Black's frame.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Come to think of it, it had been a while since I'd checked in on
      my most active Horcrux. I held out my hand. "Accio Sorting
      Hat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I grasped the Hat and deposited it atop my head. "So, how's it
      going?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He hummed thoughtfully, inwardly remarking. "Better than you'd
      think. I pretty much have everything I've ever wanted: immortality,
      a place at Hogwarts, the ability to manipulate the destinies of
      children…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, about that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Hat's fabric curled upwards to mimic a raised eyebrow, a
      deeply disconcerting movement for something pressed against my
      forehead. "You have a problem with the way I, the Sorting Hat, have
      been Sorting?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I chuckled uneasily. Why must I be so brilliant and impossible
      to manipulate? "No, not at all. It's just that this whole Slytherin
      thing is getting a little ridiculous. It made sense just after the
      war, when no one wanted to go to Slytherin, but –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Hat shivered with fury. "I gave you the Weasley girl. WHAT
      MORE DO YOU WANT FROM ME?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"More of them," I said simply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then send me more Slytherins. We have standards, now. I've
      mentioned it in every song for the past thirteen years."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I recall. Those parts don't rhyme very well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Sorting Hat spat, "I'd like to see you rhyme with
      <em class="calibre8">cleansing</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had me there, and we both knew it. I turned to Severus, who
      alternated between attending to paperwork and sneering in our
      direction. "We should probably stop before Snape destroys his
      office again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Sorting Hat cajoled, "Let's hold off for a while. I do so
      love to torment him until he hexes me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do those actually affect you?" I asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not at all, but there's no sense in encouraging him to find
      something that will."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We shared a good laugh about that, loudly, before I sent him
      back to his shelf with a flick of my hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He really is quite delightful," I informed a glowering
      Severus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Feel free to take him with you on your way out," he said
      dourly. "Additionally, inform Ginevra that her new lesson plan has
      been rejected by the Board."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I scowled. "Why should I have to tell her?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Potter, the two of you have been dating for over a decade."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I frowned. "Wait, really? Oh…that explains a lot. I don't
      suppose you could promise not to tell anyone that I didn't know
      that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't have casual conversation with <em class="calibre8">anyone</em>,
      Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Except for me," I said. Dumbledore's portrait smiled at this
      pronouncement, giving me a thumbs up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Severus said. "I only brought you in here today to discuss
      the many complaints you've earned…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Like you have any room to talk. You got a dozen complaints a
      week when you were a professor, and those were just mine," I
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Save for a twitch of the eye, Severus ignored me. "…at which
      point you started shouting about the Philosopher's Stone."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The fireplace flared up, and Fawkes beat his wings at it to
      establish dominance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione and Ron stepped into my office, still wearing the
      brightly-colored suits that were so popular in the modern Ministry
      of Magic. The phoenix ignored the new arrivals in favor of glaring
      at the defiant flames, while I welcomed them with a cheerful,
      "Congratulations on conquering Wizarding Britain, Hermione!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was elected, Harry," Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure you were" - I winked - "I'm certain there wasn't any
      coercion involved <em class="calibre8">at all</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She frowned, ceding my point. "Well, I suppose that depends on
      your definition of 'coercion.' This <em class="calibre8">is</em> politics."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sensing the danger this conversation held to his wife's thin
      veneer as a "Light" witch, Ron interrupted us. "It was good hearing
      you'd finally asked Ginny to marry you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione beamed. "Oh, yes! Honestly, I was starting to think
      your relationship was <em class="calibre8">entirely</em> one-sided."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron slung an arm around Hermione's shoulder. "But I told her,
      'Mione, even Harry isn't that dense. Don't go putting your nose in
      it.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, of course, I'm terribly grateful," I said hurriedly. "I'll
      admit that I was surprised to see you two for this parent-teacher
      conference. I don't think we've ever had one of these that wasn't a
      front for a Death Eater attack."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As an afterthought, I checked their identities with a covert
      spell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione raised her chin haughtily, declaring, "Well, we could
      hardly send Rose off to school without checking up on her,
      particularly given the circumstances."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"'Sides, you're our friend, so it's not all that bad," Ron said.
      "I wouldn't have gone back to Snape's office for anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione elbowed his side, sent him a dark glare, then turned
      back to me with a deceptively innocent smile. I led the couple to
      my desk, gesturing for them to sit in the child-sized chairs. At
      Hermione's unamused look, I transfigured one of them into a throne
      more befitting her current status.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I imagine it's quite difficult to let go of your power, even
      for such a short visit," I commiserated. After all, a lack of
      supervision had been the death of many a Dark Lord and Lady's
      once-successful campaigns.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, no," Hermione said. "It's more difficult getting time off
      for Ron than me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron grinned. "Can't get away during the full moon. You know how
      it is, mate."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione continued, "My secretary is perfectly capable of
      handling things for a few hours."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, yes, how is Malfoy?" I inquired.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Still a bit upset that his son is a Hufflepuff," she admitted,
      "but I think he's taken some comfort in the fact that he's one of
      the Slytherin Hufflepuffs."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"At least Scorpius gets to be the minion of a real Slytherin," I
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"About that" - Hermione bit down on her lip but released it a
      moment later, likely Malfoy's influence - "I know a decent amount
      about Rose's life, of course. She sends plenty of letters, but I'm
      just not entirely sure…I don't suppose you could tell me…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How's she doing?" Ron interrupted. Hermione laughed softly,
      gesturing for me to answer his question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perfectly fine, under the circumstances," I said. "She's been
      gaining influence, asserting her power, preparing her lair -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lair?" Hermione said weakly. The couple seemed rather pale,
      though that was likely because I had chosen a gloomy,
      prophecy-lighted ambiance over windows.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Slytherin dorms. It's built to house hundreds. She's
      already setting traps…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron winced.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…and we're in negotiations for a possible sleep-over," I
      finished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione smiled. "Well, that sounds nice. It would be good to
      get her around other children outside of classes, especially when
      she lacks the innate bonding of the house system."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron leaned back in his tiny chair, forehead wrinkled and Weasley
      eyes squinted. "What do you do when she gets in trouble?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why would she possibly be getting in trouble?" Hermione said
      sharply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He shrugged. "Dunno. Just wondering. I mean, there's not much
      use taking points since she's the only Slytherin and all…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Rose actually does have a fairly decent chance at the Cup," I
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione blinked. "I'm sorry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It turns out that most students end up with a negative number
      of points but are dragged up by the outliers. Rose is one of the
      outliers, without the dead weight."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But she's still only one student," Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I smirked. "Also, Snape still favors Slytherin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"'Course he does," Ron muttered darkly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For the moment, she's coping well," I continued. "My main
      concern is next year, when she'll have to be the Slytherin
      Quidditch team."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"...Then, as the Leaving Feast is just about to begin, I will
      give you exactly as many points as you need to win," I finished as
      we crept, invisibly, around McGonagall's chess board. The pieces
      knew that we were there, but they lacked the intelligence to find
      us.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rose shook her head. "I don't want that. Everyone will hate
      me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I sighed. "What <em class="calibre8">do</em> you want then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rose looked up at me, her eyes shining. "I want to find the room
      that gives you everything you want."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Room of Requirement had long since joined Hogwarts' many
      legends. "That can be arranged."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a Flame-Freezing charm, we passed into the final room of
      Dumbledore's maze. I gestured towards the mirror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rose straightened her back as she approached it, yet her
      composure fell when she saw her reflection. "I'm with some of the
      Hufflepuffs, at the Slytherin Table. We're laughing and talking
      and…We're all wearing green!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Weasley, focus!" I snapped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She shook her head, forcibly jarring herself from the
      enchantment. With renewed determination, Rose set about trying to
      steal the Philosopher's Stone, as I did at her age.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I checked the time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">9:06 AM</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">While waiting, I created a throne out of McGonagall's chess
      pieces. There was still a bit of life to them, but the twitching of
      spears and swords kept me from becoming too bored.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tempus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">9:45 AM</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rose had begun threatening the mirror in increasingly creative
      ways. While I suspected her mother would disapprove of such blatant
      tactics, she would no doubt applaud her vocabulary.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tempus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">11:12 AM</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">I finished the last of my grading, tucking the papers into a
      corner where they would hopefully be safe from Rose's barrage of
      hexes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tempus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">1:00 PM</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dobby," I called. "Get us lunch."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He fetched us the Malfoys' latest cuisine and served it on their
      silver, occasionally impaling himself on my throne.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tempus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">3:18 PM</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I GIVE UP!" Rose yelled, still glaring at the mirror. She had,
      I thought fondly, found her first nemesis.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose we could take a short break," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," she said. "No breaks. I'm done. This is stupid."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I raised an eyebrow. "But what about the room that gives you
      everything you want?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't care anymore. I am <em class="calibre8">never</em> looking at this
      bloody mirror again," she hissed. "<em class="calibre8">That</em> is the only thing
      I want right now!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With that, Rose's hand fell into her robes pocket and a smirk
      curled across her Weasley face. She pulled out a glinting, red
      stone and held it triumphantly in the air. "Hah! Got it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very good," I said, bringing it into my possession with a lazy
      gesture. "One of the trials is hidden in the Fifth Year Slytherin
      Girl's Dormitory. It should provide clues to find the others."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The girl sprinted away, eager to begin her latest quest. Of
      course, the Flame-Freezing Charm had worn off, and she had no way
      to escape the room. It occurred to me that I should probably help
      her before she accidentally (or, more likely, intentionally)
      destroyed the castle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Passing the object that had once guarded a chance at
      immortality, I glanced at my reflection. I gave a jaunty wave to my
      other self and shared a grin with him. It seemed that, with the
      loss of the Philosopher's Stone, whatever magic Dumbledore had
      worked on the artifact had disappeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was only a mirror now.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">A/N: And so it comes to an end (barring
      omakes).</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Thanks to: My brother, for coming up with this brilliant
      idea and contributing many a bizarre plot point. My other brother,
      for keeping us grounded in the land of sanity and having the idea
      that spawned our Trelawney-as-a-Death Eater plot. My readers here
      and at Spacebattles, for their beautiful, wonderful insanity,
      writing several omakes, and leaving thousands of comments, favs,
      and follows. And, of course, myself, for actually writing the
      damned thing. :)</strong></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
