<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter Seventh Horcrux - Seventh Horcrux Chapter 21: Omakes!, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter Seventh Horcrux"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s21" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 21: Omakes!</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Seventh Horcrux Omakes! (a fun mix of snippets and my
      rambles)</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">First Year: A Dream Come True</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shuffled my feet. "Erm, as long as we're down here, I wanted
      to ask about my summer living arrangements. I can't go back to the
      Dursleys. I-I might kill them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Surely you're exaggerating," Dumbledore said, eyes
      twinkling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," I insisted, glancing at Quirrel's smoking corpse. "You
      misunderstand. I might actually murder them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He stared at me gravely. "You aren't allowed to use magic over
      the summers, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I looked him dead in the eye and pushed some absolutely
      <em class="calibre8">fascinating</em> images to the front of my mind. "You think I
      need <em class="calibre8">magic</em> to kill? Muggles kill each other all the time.
      They've practically made an art form out of it. Besides, I live in
      the same house as the Dursleys. Eventually, they'll sleep. Oh,
      they'll sleep…"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"…and that's why I'm staying in the castle this summer," I
      finished smugly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione blinked, "Harry, sometimes you really scare me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I smirked. "Aw, you're just jealous that I get to spend two
      extra months in the library."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione denied it, but I knew the truth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Anytime: Cognitive Dissonance</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, are you trying to imply that I can't believe two
      things at once? I find that offensive."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione frowned. "Harry, no one can. That's a sign of
      insanity."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Musings:</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Come-uppance</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The treatment of Severus Snape in canon is…weird. He spends an
      inordinate amount of time tormenting children and generally being
      nasty to everyone he meets. But then he turns out to be on the
      right side of the war so INSTANT REDEMPTION.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The fan fiction community is split between wanting to punish him
      for being such a bastard and making him earn that redemption by
      becoming a somewhat likable person.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In Seventh Horcrux, Severus is actually fairly likeable. He's
      still a jerk, but he's mainly shown being a jerk to Harry who is
      equally jerkish back and, depending on your view, may be twice
      Snape's age. When Harry asserts that Snape is his rival,
      <em class="calibre8">Hermione doesn't argue with him.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Additionally, Severus gets to spend the rest of his life in his
      own personal hell, surrounded by people he despises: Harry, Harry's
      girlfriend, Sirius Black, Dumbledore's portrait, and Volde-Hat. Of
      course, as Dumbledore constantly asserts, it's possible he secretly
      likes them…</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Musings:</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Sirius Business</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It just occurred to me that I accidentally parodied myself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once upon a time, I planned to make a fic in which everyone's
      misconceptions about Sirius in Third Year were spot on. He was the
      spy, tricking everyone, betraying the Potters, and now out for
      revenge against Harry Potter (making him the perfect candidate for
      the DADA position, come to think of it). This Sirius, despite being
      a vicious Death Eater, would have the exact same personality as in
      canon. After all, being a villain doesn't mean being a
      <em class="calibre8">drag</em>, right?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In this fic, everyone assumes that silly Sirius Black is an evil
      Death Eater, and he totally rolls with it while pranking evildoers
      along the way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Third Year: The Infamous Sirius Black</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Black had stolen my wand. The Great Lord Voldemort had been
      felled by an Expelliarmus and, soon, he would be vanquished by his
      own deranged follower. Perhaps the Horcrux would push me into
      another body, but, right now, the only available options were my
      only competent minion, a fugitive, and the Weasley.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I had invested far too much into this life to become a
      Weasley.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I had to reveal my true identity. My voice shook. "Wait! Before
      you kill me, there's something I need to tell you – "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Black interrupted, "I'm not going to kill you. I could never
      kill you, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I blinked in surprise. I probably shouldn't have pressed my
      luck, but I always was curious. "Wait. You are Sirius Black, right?
      The vengeful, unhinged Death Eater who betrayed my parents and
      exploded some Muggles?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was framed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh. That's nice. Never mind about what I was going to say
      before, then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Third Year: Bloody Gryffindors…</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You should have realized," Lupin said quietly, "if Voldemort
      didn't kill you, we would. Good-bye, Peter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll kill him!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone turned to me in shock. "What? You can't do that," Lupin
      argued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He killed my parents. I get dibs," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're only thirteen, Harry. Leave this to us" - Sirius flashed
      a feral smile - "We'll handle this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I snorted. "Like there's an age limit on murder. Really, you're
      a Black. I thought you'd know better than that. Now, move aside,
      I've just discovered this absolutely delightful cutting curse and
      I'd like to put it to good use."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lupin said, "This is wrong. We should turn him in."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine," Black reluctantly agreed. "I guess I'd rather not do
      this in front of Harry, anyway. We'll take the rat to Dumbledore,
      and he <em class="calibre8">will</em> be Kissed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They nodded and shook hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I stifled a whine. This was what I hated about Gryffindors. They
      always turned a perfectly good murder into some sort of moral
      lesson. At this rate, I'd never make that new Horcrux.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Scabbers, er, Pettigrew's gone." the Weasley said. Apparently,
      while Lupin and Black had been making friends and sharing
      epiphanies, my ex-informant had scurried off into the night.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This never would have happened if you'd let me murder him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Third Year: Happy Memories</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry? How did you summon that Patronus?" Hermione was
      referring to the silvery snake I'd unleashed upon a crowd of
      dementors to save her, Black, and me. Mostly me.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Many people believe that someone as evil as Lord Voldemort could
      never use such powerful light magic. However, a Patronus is
      generated from a happy memory, not a nice one. My happiest memories
      just happen to involve a lot of blood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I defeated Lord Voldemort. I can do anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She rolled her eyes. "Right, sure, now tell me how you really
      did it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sometimes I hate having clever minions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shrugged. "The school was besieged by dementors. I wanted to
      protect myself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you didn't tell me?" she whined, eyes big and tearful. It
      was scary how good she was getting at manipulating people. I
      suspect I may be a bad influence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Oh well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about that time turner of yours? You didn't tell me that
      you had control over the very fabric of reality. We could have done
      such glorious things…" I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's exactly why I didn't tell you," she said with a
      smirk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Oh, she <em class="calibre8">was</em> evil…</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Fifth Year: Career Success</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">(In the first draft of the Department of Mysteries
      break-in, Ron was dragged off after being mistaken for Percy,
      leading to…)</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione glanced around the Ministry, as if expecting an alarm
      to go off at any moment. "We're getting Ron now, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I smirked. "I don't know why we would. He's got a cushy Ministry
      job now. He's doing better than either of us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Y…You're joking right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I should think that would be obvious."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She shrugged. "Well, if it was anyone else, it would be. But,
      when we first became friends, I thought you had a really dark sense
      of humor. Then I got to know you and wasn't sure you knew what
      jokes were. So this is a nice surprise."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Fifth Year: It's Ruined Forever!</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I feel pretty good about how that went," I said, "even if I did
      just ruin the House Cup forever."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione wrinkled her brow. "What do you mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, everyone knows that anyone can give or take points."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione said, "Harry, no one knows that. Is that true, or are
      you doing that weird argument thing again?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I legitimately had no authority to do that. I don't think
      the Inquisitorial Squad did, either."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," she said weakly. "So it's completely run on the honor
      system, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shrugged. "Presumably. You shouldn't tell anyone, though, or
      it will ruin the House Cup forever."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll keep that in mind," Hermione said, clearly scheming about
      how to use this information to her advantage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Anytime: Perfectly Natural</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">I said, "Who do you trust more: Me or Ron?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ron," Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I nodded. "Exac…Wait, Ron? You came to that conclusion
      surprisingly quickly considering he is an idiot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ron is not an idiot," she said. "He's simply immature, which is
      perfectly natural for someone his age."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mione, we're the same age," Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quiet, Ron."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I smirked. "As a Department of Mysteries employee, she's
      probably in her mid to late thirties –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quiet, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Fifth Year: Grey!Indy!Harry</strong> or <strong class="calibre7">Luna
      Reads Fanfiction</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna flagged me down, asking, "Harry, when you were younger, did
      you realize that everyone was secretly manipulating you, and that
      the only way you could survive to adulthood was if you forged your
      own, independent path? And could you only do that by becoming
      dangerous through illegal potions and time turner abuse?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. I would have liked to do that, but Hermione is selfish," I
      explained. It really was a pity. We could have been great…well,
      great<em class="calibre8">er</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna nodded with sympathetic understanding. "I see."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How'd you come up with that one?" I asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You publically denounce Dumbledore a lot, and you keep
      mentioning how you're neutral against Voldemort…which I think makes
      you a Grey Wizard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I frowned. "I'm not familiar with the term."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now and again, one of them emerges to destroy both the Dark and
      Light Lords, restoring balance to the world. But, mostly, they
      don't do very much. We had an article about them in last month's
      Quibbler."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(P.S. Luna couldn't appear in the Epilogue because she had to
      move on to her next fanfic, where she joins a harem and acts
      incredibly out of character. It's a little embarrassing, but, hey,
      it's a living.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Musings:</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Ship-Sinking</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Seventh Horcrux stuck to canon pairings primarily because this
      is not a shipping fanfic, so a strong romance would have seemed
      fairly derailing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">However, there are other reasons that certain ships didn't
      occur.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione is a tertiary main character, behind only Harry and
      Voldemort in terms of narrative weight. This leads to extra
      character development and the screen time necessary to bond with a
      character - always good in a love interest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">However, Harry and Hermione take turns being each other's
      mentor/parental figure. They're constantly in teacher mode,
      explaining why this is so or why that is irrevocably evil (and why
      would you do that?!). While their friendship is bloody
      heartwarming, in my humble opinion, Harry sees Hermione as his
      young, evil apprentice and Hermione sees Harry as worryingly
      immature. As she puts it, "Harry doesn't even understand what being
      a girl means."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione deserves a mature, adult relationship, and Harry could
      never, ever give her one of those.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was also noticeable support on Spacebattles for the
      Harry/Luna ship (…Larrymort? Insanity Shipping?). I understand
      where this comes from: Harry shows legitimate concern about Luna's
      feelings and Luna is both curious about Harry and comes closest to
      recognizing his particular mess of issues.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">However, it is worth noting that both characters are insane. Due
      to Harry's propensity for accepting the views of whoever he is
      speaking to at any given moment, he would soon adopt many of Luna's
      beliefs. Eventually, they would begin to orbit around each other's
      madness, spiraling deeper and deeper into outer space while the
      baffled citizens of Earth could only watch in confusion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">…Besides, can you imagine either of them having the interest or
      attention span required to start dating?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Sixth Year: Summer Vacation in Antarctica</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a perfectly reasonable plan:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I'd been going in circles for weeks, and none of those circles
      were taking me anywhere near England. So I decided to go in one
      direction, south, until I hit the southernmost part of the world.
      From there, the only place I could go would be north.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mind you, that just landed me in Canada. But at least that was
      the correct hemisphere.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Sixth Year: Negotiations</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">I surveyed the dementor floating in front of me. "Two victims
      for every minion you return with a soul."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It stared at me.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You drive a hard bargain," I acknowledged. "Three."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius frowned. "My lord, I don't think it speaks English."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I snorted. "I won't debase myself by using French. You deal with
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I stalked off, leaving a rapidly-paling Lucius with the
      advancing dementor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Musings:</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Ship-Launching</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry believes himself to be a seventy-year-old man. So pursuing
      teenage girls is creepy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry is Voldemort, a mass-murdering snake-dude and villain of
      the series. So pursuing teenage girls is <em class="calibre8">creepy</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry is mildly insane, narcissistic, self-centered, expects to
      be pursued and wooed (not the pursuer and wooer) because he is
      <em class="calibre8">clearly</em> the desirable one, and is vaguely suspicious of
      all love-shaped feelings. So pursuing teenage girls is…incredibly
      out of character.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Suffice it to say, I realized fairly early on that the only way
      Harry would end up in a relationship was if he had zero involvement
      in the process.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Under the circumstances? It was either immortal bachelorhood or
      a…relationship is certainly the wrong word…with the ever-energetic
      and obsessively devoted Ginevra Weasley.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It's cute, in a creepy sort of way, and isn't that what
      <span>Seventh Horcrux</span> is all about?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I would also like to take a moment to contemplate our beta
      couple: Hermione and Ron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While I didn't mind this ship in canon, the whole "opposites
      attract" thing always gives me a bad feeling. In this fic, however,
      they have a <em class="calibre8">bit</em> more in common. First and foremost,
      they've spent the past seven years bonding over their bizarre
      friend and how to keep him from dying in a trunk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Additionally, they grew as characters. Hermione learned to
      loosen up, that authority figures are shockingly bad at everything
      in Magical Britain, and that genocide is not okay.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron, meanwhile, benefitted very much from Harrymort's existence.
      In canon, Ron's jealousy sprung from his belief that Harry had
      everything Ron wanted (money and fame) even though Harry was just
      an ordinary bloke, and then the guy had the gall to be ungrateful
      for it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harrymort, in contrast, is a genius who knows all these crazy
      spells <em class="calibre8">and</em> he clearly adores both attention and his
      (long-lost, Dumbledore-stolen) riches. Ron's jealousy is further
      lightened by the fact that Harry includes him in adventures that he
      really shouldn't be involved with. After all, Ron had his dozen
      chances with the Goblet of Fire, too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There is no way that Ron can compete with Harry and Hermione,
      but, because they're his best friends, Ron at least attempts to
      keep up with them (though he gets no respect for this, on Harry's
      end). Even unintentional cruelty on Harry's part, such as the
      stunner thing and declaring Ron a Weasley werewolf, caused the
      redhead to improve himself and find new interests. He even becomes
      a Werewolf Rights Activist, a sure plus in Hermione's books.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Also, Hermione did get Ron eaten by a werewolf that one time, so
      she kind of owes him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Sixth Year: Inside Luna's Head</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny just apologized for Harry. They're dating; she's been
      saying so for years. Only when he's out of the room, though,
      because he fears commitment. Clearly, boyfriends and girlfriends
      can apologize for each other's rudeness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione is being rude to me, so either she has to apologize or
      Ron does. After all, everyone knows they're together. Ginny's been
      saying so for years</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Seventh Year: Poor Planning</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione gingerly stepped into the waterlogged house, the
      floorboards groaning underneath her. Shattered and water-stained
      pictures of a fat, blond boy littered the floor and glass had been
      banished to the corners. Several members of the Order of the
      Phoenix milled about the abandoned home, whispering in anxious
      clusters. A pink-haired woman walked towards Hermione, apparently
      tripping on thin air shortly before reaching her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wotcher, Hermione."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione smiled. "Good morning, Tonks. Do you know why we're
      here instead of the Burrow?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The older girl shrugged. "Some sort of rescue mission."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody stomped over to Hermione, his peg leg sending worrisome
      shudders through the house. He glared at the space next to her.
      "Potter, why is your house destroyed?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I said, "I haven't lived here in years."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your family moved?" he asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shrugged. "They left after a flashflood. I've been living in a
      trunk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks gaped. "That Skeeter article was true?!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Weasley twins grinned, slinging their arms around my
      shoulders. "Harry, we came to rescue you –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"–but it turns out that you weren't here to be rescued –" the
      second twin said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So why are you here now?" the first finished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione mentioned an Order meeting. I was bored," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fleur Delacour flounced over. "Eet is fine. We came to rescue ze
      little boy, and he eez here. So we shall do zat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody snorted. "Right. I've got the polyjuice here. We all turn
      into Potter and –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait, why would we all turn into someone they want to kill?" I
      asked. "That seems like a terrible idea."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You've got a better suggestion, do ya?" Moody growled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I said, "I leave under the cloak, and the rest of you wander off
      looking vaguely confused."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I smiled at their dumbfounded faces. They took direction easily,
      a clear sign that Dumbledore had trained his minions well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Anytime: Various Reasons, Really</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The problem with Wizarding Britain is that the people are afraid
      of change. That's why I, a man supporting many sensible yet liberal
      policies, faced so much resistance from the public:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fear of change.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Also the murder…</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">A Fun Fact</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Up until the final scene of Fourth Year, I hadn't decided if
      Voldemort would be identical to canon, meaning that Harry was a
      shoddy copy job, or if they would be exactly the same person. I'm
      immensely pleased with my decision.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Clap Your Hands if You Believe!</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort, from a very young age, had an affinity to magic. This
      was because he never even considered the possibility that reality
      would refuse to bend to his will. That it cheerfully went on to
      obey his every command was…unfortunate for his development.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In contrast, Neville assumed that the world would actively
      sabotage everything he did. It was happy to oblige.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Childhood Habits</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Picture this: A young boy enters the wizarding world. He is
      cunning, ambitious, and unreasonably fond of snakes. One day, that
      boy will grow up to be a snake. He is, you see, a shoo-in for
      Slytherin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He also appears to be a mudblood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He is never going to fit in, so he has to be better, smarter.
      Scarier.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He certainly can't be asking <em class="calibre8">questions</em>. That makes him
      look like an idiot and showcase his shameful, Muggle past. So the
      boy figures things out on his own.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But he can't get things right all the time. Despite his
      arrogance, he knows this. When someone says something that seems
      untrue, he assumes they know what they're talking about and rolls
      with it, going to insane lengths to prove that he knew it all
      along.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">…this is how Harrymort ends up engaged to Ginevra Weasley.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Seventh Year: Confrontations</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mr. Granger exclaimed, "Erasing people's memories?! Is
      <em class="calibre8">that</em> the sort of thing you've been learning in that school
      of yours?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, no," Hermione murmured. "Hogwarts doesn't teach that, and
      I'm not even going there anymore. I left last summer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Grangers shared a concerned look. Mrs. Granger took a deep
      breath. "Sweetie, you know that we love you even though you dropped
      out of school, right? You didn't need to make us forget that we
      ever had a daughter. We're still proud of you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mr. Granger cleared his throat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His wife said, "Maybe a little less proud, after this
      memory-erasing thing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I could see Hermione's hand trembling, longing to grab her wand
      and obliviate them again. She would then repeat this conversation,
      again and again, until she found a scenario in which her parents
      accepted being murdered. This would presumably occur due to
      Oblivation-induced brain damage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To resist her horrible impulse, Hermione jumped into my trunk
      and locked herself inside.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Romcom Trailer</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">*Funky music plays*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">*The camera sweeps over the Great Hall*</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">She was a girl still longing for the boy who possessed
      her body</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">*Ginny Weasley walks through the halls, chatting with friends
      and casting longing looks in Harry's direction*</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Literally</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">*Young Ginny stands in the Chamber of Secrets*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">*The camera zooms in on the diary in her hands*</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">He was an Imperioed boy dodging love
      potions</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">*Harry pushes away his plate*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginevra, did you put love potion in my eggs?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">And love</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">*Pan over the Gryffindor common room where Harry is
      gesticulating wildly*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Eventually, you become nauseous the second you feel the effects
      of a love potion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">*Hermione frowns*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So…anytime you feel love, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Could one great journey</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">*Ginny dodges spells, throwing her own back at the enemy*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">*Harry is invisible*</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Bring them together?</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would do anything for you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">*Ginny leans in to kiss Harry*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">*Harry is invisible*</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">This Christmas</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Will they be able to overcome their many…</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I command the Basilisk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">*A giant snake looms over Ginny*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">…<strong class="calibre7">many, many…</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">*Hermione groans*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">*Harry is invisible*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, <em class="calibre8">please</em> take off the cloak."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">…<strong class="calibre7">MANY issues?</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, Ginny, we have enough Weasleys. I don't need the two of
      you stalemating."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">*A single tear falls down Ginny's cheek*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I'm different from my brothers!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">A Very Harry Romance</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Directed by: Rita Skeeter</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">*Ginevra is enjoying a picnic on the war torn Hogwarts
      grounds*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">*Harry is invisible*</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Musings:</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">More Than Just Parseltongue…</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">In Third Year, Harry accuses Ginevra of being a Legilimens after
      she comments on his loud conversation about time travel. A few
      chapters later, I realized that I wrote her as one: She knows
      everyone's secrets and blithely responds to Harry's internal
      monologue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Could Diary have left more behind than a few words of
      Parseltongue and a twisted worldview?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Dumbledore's Office, after the final
      battle:</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…so we were hoping that you could explain your master plan," I
      finished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore's portrait peered down at our expectant faces and
      exclaimed, "I'm even more baffled than you are!"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">(It's all after the epilogue from here on out)</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">If I were to make a sequel to <span>Seventh Horcrux</span>, I
      would call it:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Adventures of Rose Weasley</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Last Slytherin</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The First Slytherin</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Only Slytherin</p>
      <p class="calibre6">…I'm so Lonely</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Yet Another Trailer</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">She was chosen</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">*The Sorting Hat's eyes widen*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are like me. You are…a SLYTHERIN!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">She faced her greatest fears</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">*Rose stares desperately into Harry Potter's eyes, a teacup
      clenched in her hands*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uncle Harry, what if I'm the only Slytherin because I'm the
      only student who's evil?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">She faced adversity</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, kid, we're the real Slytherins around here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">*An older Hufflepuff shoves Rose*</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">She faced isolation</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">*Rose Weasley stands up from her seat at the empty Slytherin
      table*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"SCREW THIS! I'm sitting with the Hufflepuffs."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">But can Rose face…</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">*In the depths of the Lake, a merman's eye snaps open*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">…<strong class="calibre7">Her greatest challenge yet?</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">*Harry Potter paces his classroom*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A merman drags you underwater…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why?" a student asks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They want…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">*The camera pans over the Lake as creatures begin to
      surface*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"VENGEANCE."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">*Music grows dramatic*</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">This summer</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">*Rose clutches her wand, eyes wide*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uncle Harry, why are <em class="calibre8">we</em> doing this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">*Harry laughs*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because Neville is still in Albania!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Join the adventure</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">*Rose gasps, taking a tentative step towards something we cannot
      see*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aunt Luna?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">The Adventures of Rose Weasley:</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">In Atlantis</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">*Hedwig's Theme Plays*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">*The camera comes to rest atop the placid lake, Hogwarts
      towering above it*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">*FADE TO BLACK*</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">An Unfortunately Typical History Class</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, Aunt Gi…I mean Professor Weasley?" Rose said softly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The woman turned from staring dreamily at her left hand to
      staring dreamily at the wall behind Rose's head. Rose spent a
      moment convincing herself that that was a good thing. Aunt Ginny
      said, "Yes, Rose?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were a few titters from the Ravenclaws, and Rose felt a
      flash of indignation. Aunt Ginny had promised not to treat her
      differently from the other kids, yet here she was calling her by
      her first name. Rose stifled her frustration, however, because
      something was clearly very wrong. "Um, aren't you going to teach us
      history?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her smile widened to an unsettling size. "Who needs history?
      Last night was history. We should have a party!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rose looked around, but it seemed that the other students had
      left her alone to deal with her crazy aunt. "What happened?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Aunt Ginny's elbows rested on the table, and she cupped her face
      in her hands. "Harry finally noticed me!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you've been together forever," Rose said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know! Nobody ever told him, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rose's eye twitched. "You didn't –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Aunt Ginny hopped from her seat and squealed, "We're engaged
      now!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">To the Dungeons with Ye!</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">I smoothed down the fabric of our couch, avoiding my mother's
      eyes. "Um, it's just…Sometimes, I feel like, on my first day, I was
      singled out and banished to the dungeons."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And <em class="calibre8">why</em> do you feel that way?" Mum prodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I thought about it for a minute. "…Probably because I was sorted
      into an empty house and then banished to a lonely life in the
      dungeons. I mean, it's cool to have the space and everything, but
      it's kinda cold. Also, the common room gets all foggy, so I'm not
      really sure if it's safe to stay in there. But it's not like I can
      ask anyone because <em class="calibre8">no one lives in the dungeons</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Puffs used to," Dad called from the kitchen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I strained my neck to see him over the back of the couch.
      "Really? Why did they move, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A voice echoed from the floo. "Because the castle wished to
      torment them, as is only natural."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I leapt from my seat, racing to the floo. "Uncle Harry!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Hiring is</strong> <em class="calibre8"><strong class="calibre7">Hard</strong></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Rose," Uncle Harry said, "You have to remember that your
      professors may wish to kill you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"W-what?" I squeaked. "Why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You see, many of our current staff were hired when Voldemort
      conquered the school. No one was ever replaced, however, because
      it's very difficult to find good teaching staff."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I was pretty sure this was one of those times when I wasn't
      supposed to listen to my uncle. Mum always said that Uncle Harry
      lies a lot, but we shouldn't judge him for it because he doesn't
      usually know that he's lying.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Still, I didn't want to die, and Harry <em class="calibre8">did</em> know a lot
      about Dark wizards. "Really?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Uncle Harry nodded. "Of course. Even <em class="calibre8">I</em> was hired by a
      Death Eater."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">The Sorting Hat's New Song!</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">For those who are quite brave, or just wish to look cool,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The red and gold of Gryffindor is your place in this school.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Ravenclaw tower, home of the birds,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Makes room for the mad and for the nerds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For those who have no talent or simply feel divided,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If no one else will take you, then it's Hufflepuff decided.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Finally, there's Slytherin, who wanted Purebloods who were
      cunning and ambitious, but apparently eleven-year-olds don't
      usually have those qualities. So, mostly, he just got Purebloods,
      no matter how terrible. Fortunately, we have standards now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">…Wow!</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">The New Heiress of Slytherin</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The newly-crowned Aunt Hermione Granger-Weasley, Dark Lady and
      Minister of Magic for the British Isles, smiled at my progeny.
      "She's adorable, Harry. What's her name?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, we decided that she needed a grand and terrifying title,
      much like Albus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumbledore. So I named her
      after all of my greatest enemies."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron Weasley, conman and former werewolf, gaped at my brilliance.
      "You WHAT?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione pinched the bridge of her nose. "What did you end up
      with?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Her name is Severus Albus Lily Luna Lord Voldemort Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginevra smiled. "We call her Sally for short."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's as many syllables as she can remember," I said
      fondly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginevra giggled, kissing me on the cheek and not minding in the
      least as I flinched away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione frowned and said, "How are your mother and Luna
      considered enemies?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shrugged. "They don't precisely fit the theme, but Ginevra
      insisted."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Although, Lily <em class="calibre8">did</em> slay me when I was a dark lord, and
      I'm pretty sure Luna tried to kill me once or twice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron grinned. "We're real happy for you, mate."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And we're always willing to watch her for a while," Hermione
      said, "since you're keeping an eye on Rose."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I nodded, pulling on my invisibility cloak. "Right, that reminds
      me. I should probably get back to Hogwarts and check on Rose's
      lair."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione appeared concerned. "Her <em class="calibre8">what</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But it was too late. I was already gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Musings:</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">A Paradigm Shift</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Seventh Horcrux is the story of Harry and his similarly insane
      friends in the somewhat silly world of Hogwarts. They proceed to
      take over that world, becoming professors, explorers, and the
      reigning Dark Lady of…ehem, excuse me, Minister of Magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The majority of these characters are not responsible adults, yet
      they all end up incredibly influential.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span>Rose Weasley</span> would be the story of a fairly sane
      girl in Harry's mad world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Professor Black is so Unfair!</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">I don't think Professor Black likes me very much, which is weird
      because I've never talked to him. He only teaches Third Years and
      above, after all. I think it's because my parents were war heroes
      who killed the Dark Lord Voldemort, so being mean to me is a form
      of petty vengeance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Scorpius thinks it's because I call him a Death Eater in public
      a lot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I'm not sure why that would be a problem, though. Uncle Harry
      says that Professor Black is really proud to be a Death Eater,
      since he was Voldemort's right hand man.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Musings:</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Dealing with Draco</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">There's this really cool OC that pops up in a lot of HP fics.
      He's suave, snarky, handsome, a bit of a git, but super
      good-looking. For some reason, people keep calling him Draco
      Malfoy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In canon, Draco is none of those things. He's whiny, spoiled,
      lacks willpower, rushes into dumb plans with a brashness that
      completely defies Slytherin claims of cunning, and fails at
      literally everything he tries. Sure, there's some hints of an
      angsty redemption arc, but he never does all that much. At the end,
      we get a vague impression that he's okay now for an ill-defined
      reason…a lot like Snape, actually.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The way I see it, there are three ways to deal with Draco in
      fanfics:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">1) Just swap him out for cool-guy OC up there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">2) Make him a total git. This is probably closer to canon than
      the previous option, but it strays into bashing way too easily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">3) My preferred method: Try to keep Draco as close to canon as
      possible, then give him some vague redemption primarily in the
      background. Do not take this redemption, or Draco in general,
      seriously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Scorpius Malfoy: Bringing Shame upon the Malfoy
      Name</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You've got to" – I tripped over a flagstone – "slow" – my
      shoulder smacked a wall – "down!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Scorpius Malfoy abruptly did so, dropping the arm he'd been
      dragging me by as he pushed me into an abandoned classroom (a
      weirdly common thing at Hogwarts). He turned to the door, casting
      several charms to protect against nosy passersby.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's up with you today?" I huffed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He hurried towards me. Wide, grey eyes stared into mine from
      way-too-close a distance. Finally, he whispered, "You can't tell my
      father about this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"O…kay," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He peered around the classroom, as if afraid of invisible
      eavesdroppers. This was ridiculous, of course. Uncle Harry had a
      class that period. "I think I'm a Hufflepuff."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I stared at him. "You're just noticing this now? It's been two
      months, Scorp, and I've seen your dorms. They're, like, <em class="calibre8">bright
      yellow."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Scorpius groaned, leaning back and out of my personal space.
      "Not like that. I mean…I don't think that I'm one of the Slytherin
      Hufflepuffs. I might just be one of the Hufflepuff
      Hufflepuffs."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I gasped. "No."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I mean, I'm not really ambitious or anything. Father's always
      talking about how I should aspire to be some great politician, but
      I'm cool with just coasting by on my money and good looks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I raised an eyebrow. "What good looks?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm a Malfoy!" Scorpius tilted his head up arrogantly, but all
      it did was emphasize his pointy chin and too-long neck.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…anyway, I don't think being lazy is a very Hufflepuff trait,
      either," I pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Scorpius's head fell so quickly that I almost expected a snap or
      crack to accompany the motion. "Uh, maybe I'm one of the
      leftovers?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wincing, I put a hand on his shoulder. "Scorp, don't
      <em class="calibre8">say</em> stuff like that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Tea and Emotional Crises</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What if I'm the only Slytherin because I'm the only student
      that's evil?" I asked, wide eyes staring up at my uncle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He chuckled. "Rose, if being evil were the only thing necessary
      to get into Slytherin, it would be the largest house."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I bit my lip, a frown furrowing my brow. "Huh. That makes me
      feel better about myself but worse about everything else."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Uncle Harry ruffled my hair. "Good, that means you're growing
      up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That made me feel even worse.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">A/N: It's been fun, guys.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">For any <em class="calibre8">Naruto</em> fans out there: You might want
      to give me a follow. The future holds silly things for
      you...</strong></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
