<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter Seventh Horcrux - Seventh Horcrux Chapter 3: HP vs Gilderoy Lockhart, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter Seventh Horcrux"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s3" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 3: HP vs Gilderoy Lockhart</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Seventh Horcrux</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span>Ch. 3: Harry Potter vs. Gilderoy Lockhart</span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">I woke up to two bulbous eyes staring at me from the foot of my
      bed. Grabbing my wand, I growled, "Trying to kill me, eh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The house-elf gaped. "Dobby is not trying to kill the Great
      Harry Potter; Dobby is only trying to save him. Dobby…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby. I knew that name from somewhere. I hummed, my wand still
      pointed at the house-elf. "You're Lucius's elf, the one who used to
      serve those fantastic cakes!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Great Harry Potter knows about Dobby?" the pitiful creature
      said, eyes filling with tears.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It wasn't that impressive, really. House-elves were simply less
      prone to failure than their owners and therefore died significantly
      less often.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, which Malfoy sent you then? The older or the younger?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No one sent Dobby. Dobby went on his own. Dobby wanted to warn
      the Great Harry Potter – "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"House-elves don't just <em class="calibre8">go</em> places. Really, though,
      which one is trying to kill me? I'd have guessed Lucius, but Draco
      might be making another go at it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They is talking about terrible things at Hogwarts –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Both of them, then?" – I paused thoughtfully – "Yes, of course,
      Malfoys always travel in packs."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dobby –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, thank you for this valuable information. If you'll excuse
      me, I need to plan."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pulling at his ears, Dobby popped away. That was one of the most
      helpful assassination attempts I've ever experienced.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tut, tut – hardly any of you remembered that my favorite color
      is lilac."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart sighed gustily, golden curls flopping with a dramatic
      shake of his head. His exasperation lasted only a moment, however,
      and he was soon back to grinning like a loon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Weasley rolled his eyes, grumbling about frauds. Of course,
      the boy was far too dense to realize that it wasn't his
      accomplishments that Lockhart was faking – it was his personality.
      After all, it is common for truly powerful wizards to hide their
      cunning behind a mask of harmless incompetence. Just look at
      Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I, too, had once doubted Lockhart's claims, for even I would
      hesitate to take on an entire island of vampires, no matter how
      many stakes I was using as hair curlers. Nevertheless, a small
      amount of research revealed that Lockhart was quite reputable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Besides, Dumbledore would hardly hire someone as idiotic as
      Lockhart pretended to be. No, he was clearly more than he
      appeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart went on to prove his worth as a professor by releasing
      a batch of Cornish Pixies and hiding under a desk. By withholding
      support, he forced students to think on their feet and problem
      solve without relying on an authority figure to do everything for
      them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was <em class="calibre8">true</em> Defense Against the Dark Arts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For the first time in decades, I feared that Dumbledore had
      hired a professor talented enough to break my curse. Gilderoy
      Lockhart would have to die.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">I approached Hermione, Ron trailing at my heels. She was
      cheerfully chatting with Nearly Headless Nick, the ghost of
      Gryffindor House. I found it telling that the ghost of Gryffindor
      had been violently murdered while the ghost of Slytherin was a
      violent murderer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You shouldn't let them upset you," she said, "People are just
      awful when they're in groups. They like to exclude people, you
      know, especially on technicalities. It makes them feel important,
      and it's well-known psychological phenomenon…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose," Nick said morosely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione reached out a hand to pat him on the shoulder, realized
      what she was doing, and yanked her hand back. She sniffed. "I'm
      quite certain the Headless Hunt isn't nearly as fun as you'd think,
      anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, are you talking to ghosts?" I asked. "It's useless,
      you know. They're like paintings – not really sentient – so there's
      no point bothering with them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you spent three hours arguing with a painting just last
      week," Ron very rudely interrupted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I glared at him. "Yes, and, if it was capable of changing its
      mind, it would have that realized I was right. We learned a
      valuable lesson about the idiocy of paintings, and I think we've
      all grown since then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione giggled, sharing a traitorous grin with Ron. "Yes,
      well, I was just speaking with Sir Nicholas about ghosts and their
      very rich culture."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can hear another Hermione rant coming on," Ron groaned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She ignored him, going on excitedly. "He's invited us to his two
      hundredth Death Day Party!"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"So we can go to a ghost party with rotted food but we can't go
      to the Halloween Feast?" Ron whined.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, hush, Ronald. You could have gone by yourself. Besides, Sir
      Nicholas' Death Day Party was a wonderful learning experience,"
      Hermione chided.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He snorted. "Yeah, I learned that I never want to go again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"…rip…tear…kill…"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">I stopped in surprise. The Basilisk? If she was slithering
      around, it meant that someone else had been meddling in <em class="calibre8">my</em>
      Chamber of Secrets.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"…time to kill…"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"NO!"</em> I hissed, "<em class="calibre8">Bad snake! No killing."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione glanced back. "Are you okay, Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, yes, I'm perfectly alright. Just, erm, clearing my throat.
      Probably shouldn't have tried the food at Nick's party…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Shortly afterward, we stumbled upon a petrified cat and a bloody
      message telling everyone that the Chamber of Secrets had been
      opened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was exactly like what I did in my sixth year, down to the
      curl of my S's. This new "heir" was only a pale and pathetic
      imitation of my former glory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Filch accused me of being the Heir of Slytherin (technically
      true), Dumbledore got me out of trouble through the power of
      favoritism, and Hermione began a new research project.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That night, I snuck into the girls' loo and changed the password
      needed to enter the Chamber of Secrets.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">I leaned up against the cauldron, glancing about the abandoned
      loo. Myrtle had long since disappeared down the toilet in tears.
      Her death was accidental, just a case of poor timing. I might have
      felt bad about it if she'd had the dignity to just die.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, Hermione, you want to explain what we're doing here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She grinned, giving the potion a final stir and going into
      teacher mode. "This is Polyjuice Potion, or it will be in a month.
      It'll let us sneak into the Slytherin Common Room and ask Malfoy if
      he's the Heir of Slytherin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I frowned. "Hermione, of course he's the Heir of Slytherin.
      <em class="calibre8">Everyone's</em> the Heir of Slytherin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She wilted, confusion wrinkling her brow. "Come again?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, Slytherin lived a thousand years ago, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nine-hundred and ninety-four."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right. A long time. I'm not sure if you've noticed, but the
      wizarding population is kind of tiny. Everyone is related to
      everyone, so everyone's related to Slytherin. In fact, the only
      people in the school who are not the Heirs of Slytherin are you and
      the other Muggleborns. Also, possibly Ron."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah!" the redhead yelled, sparking a wail from Myrtle's
      toilet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…Salazar had standards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The grin melted off his Weasley face. He said, "But it's still
      probably Malfoy, isn't it? I mean, him and the other Slytherins are
      the only ones who believe in all that blood purity stuff."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I snorted. "If Malfoy were the Heir of Slytherin, he'd be
      bragging about it. All the time. He would be right here, in our
      faces, bragging."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're in the girls' loo," Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Like that would stop him. He would follow us into the girls'
      loo <em class="calibre8">just</em> to brag about it. I mean, honestly, this is
      Malfoy we're talking about here. There are two things he mentions
      in every conversation: his father and his money. If he were the
      Heir of Slytherin, there would be three things he'd mention in
      <em class="calibre8">every</em> conversation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione pouted. "So, that means we don't need to brew an
      illegal potion with stolen ingredients, knock out three of our
      classmates, tie them up in a closet, sneak into the Slytherin
      Common Room, and interrogate Malfoy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I gaped at her. "Was that your plan?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I fear that Hermione may be the most evil of us all. That is
      concerning since I am a retired Dark Lord.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">I stormed to the girls' loo, cloak snapping menacingly behind
      me. There had been another attack. This one targeted a student who
      aspired to be my minion, one day. Though I had no particular
      fondness for Creevey, I also didn't have enough minions to start
      losing them to my own giant monsters.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What was worse, however, was the imposter's apparent ability to
      guess my password. I suppose <em class="calibre8">"Slytherin's Locket"</em> wasn't
      the most unique password, so I changed it into something less
      obvious.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy's summoned snake launched itself onto one of the
      students. Oh, sure, I could have stopped it, but I didn't really
      care. Besides, our medicine is pretty good; he would probably be
      fine.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The real question is why no one else did anything. There were
      plenty of people around – Severus, Lockhart, the other students –
      and, as far as they were concerned, I was just a stupid second year
      who most certainly couldn't speak to snakes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Taking advantage of my opponent's distraction, I disarmed him
      and hopped off the stage. I do so love winning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, Hermione," I asked, "Who's the kid with the snake on his
      face?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Justin Finch-Flechley," she murmured. My minions flinched at
      the boy's screams.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Everything burns!" my…erm, Malfoy's victim cried.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's a Hufflepuff."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, that's alright then."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">I had finally finished reading all of Lockhart's books and had
      determined that I was doomed. He was talented in hand-to-hand
      combat, as evidenced by his battle against seven werewolves while
      wandless. He had mastered battle magic as well, tearing through
      smaller dark lords with ease and routinely using spells I'd never
      even heard of.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Worse still were the skills that he had neglected to name. For
      instance, several of his fights had occurred simultaneously, while
      on opposite sides of the planet. Many would assume that this was a
      printing error or proof that Lockhart was lying, but I was not so
      naïve. To someone with my knowledge of dark magic, it was obvious
      that Lockhart was a master of the <em class="calibre8">Multis Me</em> cloning spell,
      which was outlawed three centuries ago for inducing madness in its
      caster.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He even hinted at this in the title of his newest book
      <em class="calibre8">Magical Me.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">I also worried that he would see through my Harry Potter
      persona. An actor of his caliber would no doubt recognize such
      actions in another.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart constantly assigned me detention in order to better
      observe my actions. Even outside of class, he paid me particular
      attention, sending knowing smiles in my direction and giving me
      tips on how to be more famous. My few attempts to implement this
      advice ended disastrously, leading me to the conclusion that he was
      attempting to sabotage my reputation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I would have to orchestrate his demise very carefully.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">How in Merlin's name did the imposter guess the password was
      Horcrux?!</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"You've got to admit this is a load of bullocks," Ron said,
      waving his arms around at the chaotic scene in front of us.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dwarves swarmed the Great Hall, chasing down errant students and
      occasionally tackling them to deliver often-humiliating Valentines
      messages. I crouched beneath the Gryffindor table, hiding under my
      invisibility cloak, while Ron and Hermione sat in front of me.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It does seem a bit…silly," Hermione hesitantly admitted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I said, "It's a training exercise."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not every stupid thing Lockhart does is a training exercise,
      mate," Ron foolishly declared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's where you're wrong. This, for instance, tests our
      stealth, and I am clearly winning."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's because you're using the cloak to cheat," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I raised my eyebrows, realized I was too invisible to silently
      display my condescension, and sighed. "Using an advantage that no
      one else shares to surpass your competition is not cheating. It's
      being intelligent. You would know that if you paid attention in
      Defense."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">I hissed the new password, <em class="calibre8">"Open. Open. Open. I am Lord
      Voldemort and you will open for me!"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">How the imposter guessed that one, I couldn't even imagine.
      Perhaps he was an accomplished Legilimens. I trudged through the
      Chamber, towards the fool who had dared to attack my new Bellatrix.
      Hermione was currently lying stiff in the Hospital Wing, unable to
      serve me for months!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A hissed "<em class="calibre8">Salazar"</em> released the basilisk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Ssstay behind me, and close your eyesss."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Yesss, Massster."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">I waited in the Chamber. Eventually, my fellow Parselmouth would
      come, and I would be there to catch him when he did. I settled into
      a cross-legged position and waited. It was very dark in the Chamber
      and impossible to tell if the castle had awoken, yet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tempus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">3:37 AM</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a leak from the ceiling, splashing water directly onto
      my head. I moved. It followed. I sometimes hate this castle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tempus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">7:50 AM</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slytherin's statue failed to respond to insults regarding his
      heritage, appearance, or ability. It did attack when I cast the
      Killing Curse at it, however, and proved fairly susceptible to
      blasting curses. I transfigured the mound of rubble into a chair,
      Slytherin's scowling face hovering above my own.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tempus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">1:15 PM</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">I'm hungry</em>," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The basilisk hissed, <em class="calibre8">"I haven't eaten in three hundred
      years."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"It's been at least eighteen hours for me,"</em> I
      commiserated. Sometimes, I think that no one understands my
      suffering as well as the basilisk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Really, what was wrong with this new Heir? He should be here, by
      now. It had been at least half a day. I hadn't even changed the
      password! Still, I couldn't just up and leave. I was invested, by
      Merlin, and I wasn't going until the imposter was put in his place.
      My resolve was unwavering.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tempus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">1:55 PM</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm still hungry…Wait, I have a brilliant idea," I said. "All I
      need is a house-elf."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I smirked. "House-elf!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing happened for several minutes. I muttered, "Alright,
      maybe I need a name, something stupid like Flimsy or Floppsy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I looked around: Still no food-bearing slave. What was the name
      of that assassin, again? Ah, right. "Dobby!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The bedraggled creature popped in front of me, his eyes
      widening. "The Great Master Harry Potter sir is calling Dobby?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Feed me," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He came back after a few moments, several plates floating around
      him. My eyes lit up. "Is that duck?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Master Lucy is wanting duck for dinner," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I was impressed. "You stole from him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The house-elf shifted uncomfortably. "Dobby did not steal. Dobby
      just gave snack to very powerful guest."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I frowned. "But I'm not his guest, right now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby proceeded to slam his head against the ground. Shrugging,
      I dug into my meal, eating with all the table manners of a Weasley.
      Afterwards, I looked down at where a very dazed Dobby sprawled on
      the stone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, right, and can you grab a peacock for my friend?" I
      gestured towards the basilisk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After that particular bit of entertainment, I settled down to
      wait more comfortably.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tempus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">4:30 PM</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bored out of my mind, I drowsed under my invisibility cloak.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">I awoke to hurried footsteps and squinted through the cloak's
      starry cloth as a small, robed figure walked inside. The red hair
      was unmistakable. Whipping the cloak off dramatically, I leapt to
      my feet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You!" I exclaimed. "I should have known. You Weasleys, always
      so righteous, always in Gryffindor, are the true heirs of
      Slytherin. You've lain in wait for generations, hiding your true
      cunning behind a veil of idiocy. But, now, I see you for the
      Pureblood fanatics you have always been."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The youngest Weasley gaped at my brilliant deductions.
      "…What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I took a moment to smugly survey my opponent. The girl looked
      shocked. One pale hand had dropped her wand in surprise and her
      other clutched something to her chest. A book? I frowned. It looked
      familiar, though it was far too thin to be anything I'd read
      recently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, don't feign innocence, Weasley. It's obvious that you're
      all Slytherins. After all, every Weasley has been in Gryffindor for
      generations. Even the Gryffindor family didn't all go to
      Gryffindor! And your constant breeding is clearly a desperate
      attempt to produce Parseltongue from your impure blood."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Weasley laughed. "You think <em class="calibre8">Ginny Weasley</em> could
      open the Chamber of Secrets?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her eyes trailed across me languidly. "So you're the great Harry
      Potter. I don't believe we've been introduced. My name is Tom
      Riddle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Suddenly, I recognized the book.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Diary?" I shouted. "What in Merlin's name are you doing
      here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She (he?) hissed, "How dare you address me so disrespectfully? I
      am Lord Voldemort!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're going to regret that name in a few years," I said, "and
      I'm the real Lord Voldemort. You're just my horcrux."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Diary sneered. "You're Lord Voldemort? No, I think I'm
      Voldemort."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I narrowed my eyes. No diary was going to defy me. "Well, at
      least I'm not in the body of a girl. I certainly don't remember
      being confused about <em class="calibre8">that</em> when I was in school."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm only using her body-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I cut in, "Whoa, there. She's only twelve. I don't remember
      being confused about that, either."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His Weasley eyes flashed with fury. "You'll regret that," he
      hissed. With a smirk, he turned to the Basilisk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Attack."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">No, don't do that,"</em> I ordered in Parseltongue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Basilisk has no way of identifying the "one true heir of
      Slytherin." It's a snake, not some magical lineage device. As such,
      it follows any command given in Parseltongue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Diary glared. "<em class="calibre8">Attack him!"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Don't do that,"</em> I ordered. <em class="calibre8">"In fact, never attack
      me. And don't listen to any of his orders, either."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That isn't fair," he grumbled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I sighed, wishing my younger self was less of an idiot. "Diary,
      we are a <em class="calibre8">dark lord</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Diary snatched up the Weasley girl's wand. "I don't need the
      Basilisk for this, anyway. I wonder…if we were to fight, who would
      win?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I glared. "Me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really? I don't think so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You stop this nonsense and get back in your diary, young
      man."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Weasley girl smirked. "Of course, you could always join me.
      I might let you rule at my feet -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Avada Kedavra," I said, pointing my wand at the diary. The
      Weasley collapsed as the book glowed green and the soul inside
      screamed. The Horcrux was destroyed. Or released, or something like
      that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a necessary evil. I had enough competition without
      another me running around.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">I had assumed that, upon the destruction of my soul containers,
      I would notice. They're tying me to this world, after all, so I
      should feel <em class="calibre8">something</em> when they disappeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Yet I did not.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This meant that all of my Horcruxes could be destroyed and I
      would have no idea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That is a problem.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">I dumped the Weasley in the girl's loo. She'd wake up in a few
      hours, exhausted and suffering from amnesia. Obviously, she'd come
      up with some explanation and forget about it, in typical Weasley
      fashion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I threw my invisibility cloak on as I hurried out of the loo and
      snuck back into Gryffindor tower. I'd never understand why the
      portrait would let students pass who were clearly out after curfew
      and invisible. The foolish portrait would probably let a Death
      Eater in, if one knew the password…Come to think of it, she was
      letting the Dark Lord in, now, so that would actually be a step
      down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I crept into the Second Year boys' dormitory, slipped off the
      invisibility cloak, and threw open the Weasley's curtains.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Spiders!" he cried, jolting forward. He relaxed upon realizing
      that I did not, in fact, possess eight eyes. "Oh, Harry. You're
      back."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, yes," I grumbled. "Did you avoid suspicion, as I
      ordered?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron grinned. "Yeah, I told everyone you were sick."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And no one questioned that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nah, McGonagall just said you should go to the Hospital Wing if
      it got bad. Dean, Seamus, and Neville thought it was weird they
      never saw you, but I just said you were sleeping under your
      invisibility cloak again…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That <em class="calibre8">is</em> something I would do," I muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…and no one wanted to wake you after last time," Ron said,
      shivering slightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know why you're still complaining about that. The scars
      weren't even permanent."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where were you, anyway?" Ron followed me to my trunk, where I
      tossed my cloak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Chamber of Secrets. As usual, I solved
      <em class="calibre8">everything</em>."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">I'd hoped that would be the end of it since Dumbledore and
      Hagrid were kicked out of the school on the same day I went hunting
      for the imposter. Hermione's petrification was the last of them,
      and they'd arrested the man who was previously blamed. Everything
      seemed perfectly resolved, to me.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I'd feel bad about using Hagrid as a scapegoat, but he did
      almost burn down the Forbidden Forest, the previous year.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Come to think of it, I didn't feel guilty about my previous
      actions, either.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hagrid wasn't <em class="calibre8">technically</em> expelled for being the Heir
      of Slytherin. He was expelled for keeping a man-eating spider in
      the school. Which, to be fair, he did.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Unfortunately, the groundskeeper's obvious guilt was not enough
      to stop the incompetent fools at the Ministry from nearly ruining
      my magical education. Again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">My minion and I tracked down Professor McGonagall, the acting
      headmistress, in her office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can't close the school!" I exclaimed, the Weasley echoing
      me.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall's lips thinned. "The Board of Governors has
      determined that Hogwarts is no longer safe for students."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There hasn't been an attack in weeks. I'm sure we're fine," I
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Potter," she snapped. "There is a deadly monster in the
      school."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It can't be that deadly if it didn't kill anyone," I
      argued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Petrifications are no laughing matter, and it's only prudent to
      close the school before the monster kills a student, as it did
      fifty years ago."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I snorted. "One death every fifty years? We lose more students
      than that to the moving staircase."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron gaped at me. "We do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you think happened to the Perks girl?" I asked. It
      really was a wonder Ron hadn't accidentally strangled himself,
      which I'd like to add would set his death toll equal to my
      basilisk's.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall sighed. "Any death is too great a risk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But we caught the Heir, already," I whined.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She frowned. "It has only been three weeks, Mr. Potter. There is
      no proof that we've caught the Heir."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But everyone knows that it's Hagrid's fault."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Honestly, if we weren't going to blame him, why arrest the oaf
      at all?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor McGonagall sighed heavily. "The school is closing, Mr.
      Potter. I'd suggest you get used to the idea. Now, please leave my
      office. I have work to do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I stormed from the office, Ron at my heels like a good minion.
      "How dare they? As if they can close <em class="calibre8">my</em> school without my
      approval…Fine, they want a monster; I'll give them a monster."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quiet, Ron. I'm scheming," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a few moments, I worked out my plan. "We need to go into
      the Forbidden Forest and bring back an Acromantula."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron frowned. "A what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A giant spider."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?! But why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To stop the school from closing down, of course," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought you said you took care of everything." His Weasley
      mind struggled to keep up with my brilliance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, no, I just took care of the Heir. You clearly weren't
      paying attention," I said breezily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I huffed in annoyance. "Let me put this simply: To keep the
      school open, we need to kill Slytherin's monster. The monster is in
      the forest. To kill it, we have to take it in the school."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There, that was a close enough approximation of the truth. Most
      importantly, it was the explanation that would convince my minion
      to assist me, or at least keep him too confused to argue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron shrugged. "Okay."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright, we're agreed then. We go into the forest tonight. How
      is your Stunning Spell?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I never learned the Stunning Spell," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then you get to be bait," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was always going to be bait, but I figured he'd agree more
      easily if he thought it was his fault.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Erm, mate, are you sure about this?" Ron asked, trudging
      through the Forbidden Forest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I floated next to him on a school broomstick and sighed loudly
      to ensure it would be heard through my invisibility cloak. "Ron,
      when have I ever been wrong about anything?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I quickly interrupted. "That was a rhetorical question."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I still think this is a bad idea," he muttered. "Spiders are
      bloody terrifying."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Didn't you pay attention to the Hat? Gryffindors aren't afraid
      of things. If you wanted to be afraid of things, you should have
      gone to Hufflepuff."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron nodded sullenly. No one wants to be a Hufflepuff.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We followed the spiders deep into the forest, and, at last,
      found one of the larger acromantulas. From black-furred leg to
      yellow eye, it was about the size of a horse, its fang as long as
      my arm. That should be intimidating enough.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I whispered, "Ron, that's it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I-it's so big," he stuttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have to get its attention," I said. "Wave your arms or
      something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron stood completely still, utterly failing at fading into the
      greenery. Hufflepuff. I cleared my throat and yelled, "HEY, SPIDER!
      I, THE REDHEADED BOY TO YOUR LEFT, AM VERY DELICIOUS!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Was that so hard? The acromantula turned, clicking, and
      scuttling towards Ron. He ran away, the spider hot on his trail and
      me flying beside them. Demonstrating admirable stamina, the Weasley
      made it all the way through the forest and well onto the grounds
      before panting, "Harry, where should I go?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I smirked beneath my cloak. "The Defense classroom, of course.
      Lockhart will take care of it."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would like to take a moment to commemorate the loss of
      Professor Lockhart who died courageously fighting Slytherin's
      Acromantula," Dumbledore said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I bowed my head along with the rest of the Great Hall. Lockhart
      was a brilliant man and a better teacher. It was a pity he chose to
      oppose me.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After no more than a second, Dumbledore clapped his hands and
      cheerfully remarked. "Now, let's move on to happier matters. It's
      time to award the House Cup!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I listened raptly. Hufflepuff was in fourth place – naturally –
      with Gryffindor well above and Ravenclaw slightly ahead. Slytherin
      was set to be the winner.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore sighed. "Yet I find myself once again needing to
      award points for special services performed for the school. To Mr.
      Ronald Weasley and Mr. Harry Potter, for locating Slytherin's
      monster and saving the school, I award one hundred
      points…each."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were shocked gasps and mutinous mutters from
      Slytherin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is ridiculous!" I cried. "You're not even trying to hide
      your favoritism."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, Mr. Potter…" Dumbledore said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No! I refuse to accept this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Twenty points from Gryffindor for talking out of turn," Snape
      drawled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I said, "Thank you! At least someone is trying to be fair here.
      Until this is righted, I declare a hunger strike."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With that, I strode from the Great Hall, doors slamming shut
      behind me with an echoing boom. Gilderoy Lockhart would have
      approved.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, I brought you some food," Hermione called, pushing into
      the boys' dormitory. "I think it's very noble what you're doing for
      the Slytherins, but you really shouldn't neglect your –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She paused upon noticing the plate of turkey, tin of biscuits,
      tub of gravy, bowl of salad, various desserts, and assorted other
      food items hovering in the air around me. "…Oh, you're eating."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I said, "Of course I'm eating. I can't just starve myself every
      time Dumbledore does something immoral. I'd be starving myself all
      the time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione frowned. "But you said you were going on a hunger
      strike."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I definitely said that." I took a bite of biscuit, taking
      care to swallow before speaking again. I'm not a Weasley.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione sighed and said, "Where did you get all of this,
      anyway?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, want some for yourself, eh?" – I grinned – "Never let it be
      said that I am not a generous ma-friend. Come Dobby!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The house-elf popped beside me. "Master Harry Potter sir is
      wanting more?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione gaped at the hideous creature. "Are you okay?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I chewed my mouthful of turkey thoughtfully before answering.
      "Well, it's a bit on the dry side, and I wouldn't mind a fork. But
      I suppose I'll survive."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, not you," she snapped, and turned to Dobby as her voice
      softened, "Hi, I'm Hermione. What's your name?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dobby is Dobby," he said nervously, pulling at his ragged
      pillowcase.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What exactly are you?" she whispered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dobby is a house-elf."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She smiled widely, as if interacting with a small child. "And
      how did you get all this food? Did you make it yourself?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dobby is good cook. Dobby took it from the kitchens for the
      amazing, very kind Harry –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He stole it from the Malfoys," I added helpfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby's eye twitched violently, and he set about trying to bash
      his head in with the biscuit tin. I scowled. "Hey, I was using
      that!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The house-elf helpfully switched to slamming himself against the
      floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione said, "Please stop doing that!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I said, "Hermione, there's really no use trying to talk him out
      of it. He'll probably just hurt himself more, later, for making you
      go to the trouble."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But why?" Hermione sniffled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shrugged. "That's just how house-elves are."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Honestly, I think they may actually <em class="calibre8">like</em> that sort of
      thing, but there are some things you just don't tell a
      twelve-year-old girl. I do have some decency.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She bit her lip but dropped the subject. "There was something
      else I wanted to ask you, actually. I just didn't have time what
      with making up all the classes I'd missed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And getting O's in all of them, I'm sure," I said. There was a
      loud crack.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is he…?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I said, "It was probably the floor. Dobby, fix the floor before
      you leave."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Harry Potter sir," he squeaked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She continued. "Um, alright then. Well, I was just wondering
      about Slytherin's monster. I was looking it up in the library
      before my petrification, and I was really quite certain it was a
      basilisk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I laughed for a good, long while. When Hermione's ideas seemed
      sufficiently mocked, I said, "Hermione, that is completely
      ridiculous. Do you know how rare those are? Besides, it was
      definitely an acromantula. Everyone saw it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I saw the creature's reflection in my mirror, and it only
      had two eyes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you sure? It was a pretty big spider, Hermione. You might
      have only seen two eyes, but there were six more above them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She shook her head. "And I've read <em class="calibre8">Fantastic Beasts and
      Where to Find Them</em> twice now. Acromantulas don't petrify
      people. Basilisks do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I reached forward to pat her on the shoulder. "It was an
      enchanted spider, obviously."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I guess that makes sense," she said in a voice that implied
      that it really didn't make sense at all. "I still can't believe
      Hagrid wanted to kill Muggleborns, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shook my head regretfully. "Honestly, I'm surprised it took so
      long to arrest him. He did the same thing fifty years ago. Fifty
      years of biding his time, pretending to be an idiot, only to
      finally strike…we should all hope to be as Slytherin as
      Hagrid."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why would we want to be Slytherin at all?" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I smiled, hoping it wouldn't twitch too noticeably. "That's not
      important right now. Dobby, bring us cakes!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yesh, 'arry Potta shr," the house-elf slurred, popping
      away.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">My two months of exile in the Muggle world were not as terrible
      as they might have been.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Dursleys continued to acknowledge my superiority and ability
      to injure them at any time, and my minions kept me well informed of
      news in Wizarding Britain. During my trips to proper civilization,
      I began tentatively researching Horcruxes and similar rituals. It
      turns out that making them solely based on the information obtained
      from one crumbling tome was <em class="calibre8">probably</em> a bad idea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Most importantly, however, it allowed me time to work on my
      newest project:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Sporting with Spiders,</em> the final installation in
      Lockhart's book series.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sure, the brilliant adventurer wouldn't be writing it, and all
      the royalties would go directly to me. But I think that's how
      Lockhart would have wanted it.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
