<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter Seventh Horcrux - Seventh Horcrux Chapter 6: HP vs Alastor Moody (Pt 1), a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter Seventh Horcrux"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s6" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 6: HP vs Alastor Moody (Pt 1)</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Seventh Horcrux</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span>Chapter 5: Harry Potter vs. Alastor Moody (Pt.
      1)</span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">I paced my room at the Dursleys, wand spinning between my
      fingers. Dumbledore had warned me to stay inside for fear of Sirius
      Black, and I had reluctantly abided by his request. But the Muggle
      world was exhausting, and – worse yet – incredibly boring.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Weasley's old owl thudded against my window, scratching the
      glass weakly. I scrambled toward it in a horribly undignified
      manner and swung open the window, causing the owl to fall into my
      room. He was probably dead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shrugged and grabbed the message from his twitching claws.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Hi Harry,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Has Hermione been on you about doing homework? She's
      completely mental. We've got a whole month left!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Did you hear that the Cannons won their last game? It's the
      third time this season. The twins say it's a fluke, but I think
      they've really got a chance at the Cup.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">I skimmed the rest of the letter. Apparently, Ron's rat was
      eaten by a grim or something. See, this is why I miss the wizarding
      world. When I leave, even Ron has adventures without me. I scowled,
      returning to the letter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Mum's been asking when you're going to visit. If you want,
      you could probably come for the rest of the summer…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">I didn't read the end of the letter. I was too busy packing.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry!" That was my only warning as I stepped from Mr.
      Weasley's car and was viciously attacked. I stood still and waited
      for Hermione to stop hugging me.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello, Hermione," I said. "Ron."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginevra also peeked at us from the doorway. But, since she was
      attempting to be discreet, I pretended not to see her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, mate," Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His mother bustled over, beaming. I think she wanted to hug me
      as well, but I'd already gotten my wand out. She kept her hands
      clasped atop her chest. Smart of her – which made sense since she
      was only a Weasley by marriage. "Harry! Oh, it's so nice to finally
      meet you. I've been telling Ron to have you over for years."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't want to impose," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She smiled sweetly. "No imposition at all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A loud ding echoed across the yard. With a harried look, the
      Weasley matriarch said, "Now, lunch will be ready in a few minutes,
      so don't stay out here too long."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As she left, Ron turned to me. "You didn't want to impose?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, no, it seemed rude."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mate, that doesn't sound like you at all. When have you
      <em class="calibre8">ever</em> cared about being rude?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shrugged, tucking my wand back in my pocket since the danger
      of Weasley affection had passed. "I was under the impression you
      lived in a shoebox."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His Weasley mouth dropped open and stayed that way for some
      time. "What?!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's what Malfoy said," I said peevishly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He was just being an insulting git like he always is," Hermione
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I frowned and observed Ron with unshielded confusion. "But, if
      he was lying, why did you get so upset?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron went on sputtering for a while, waving his hands around as
      if to illustrate some incomprehensible point. I turned my attention
      to a thoughtful Hermione, which could only lead to trouble. She
      stared at the place where Mr. Weasley's car was parked. "Why didn't
      you mention that your family were Muggles?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I prefer not to talk about them. They're really quite
      insufferable," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean?" Ron asked, finally recovered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They just are" – I shrugged – "You would understand if you met
      them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione said, "Harry, if you were raised by Muggles, then where
      do all of your biases come from?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have legitimately no idea what you're talking about."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have no respect for Hufflepuffs, and sometimes you just
      completely disregard Muggles like they aren't even people" –
      Hermione cocked her head, giving me a suspicious look – "Your
      family <em class="calibre8">is</em> alright with you coming here, right? You didn't
      just decide they were unimportant and go off without telling
      anyone?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I tried to cut in on her completely unwarranted paranoia.
      "Hermione –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She rambled on. "Because that <em class="calibre8">really</em> seems like
      something you would do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I huffed, insulted. "I told them. And I'll have you know they
      were very happy to see me go. There was hugging and
      everything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She giggled. "Aw."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wasn't involved," I said, hoping she wouldn't get any ideas.
      "They also had a party."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That sounds nice," Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wouldn't know. It was after I left."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione seemed quite stunned and failed to respond. Since the
      conversation was clearly over at that point, I wandered inside in
      search of lunch.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now she insists I've been 'emotionally neglected.' Whatever
      that means."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron nodded. "Yeah, 'Mione can be kind of weird about stuff like
      that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's like the house-elves all over again," I grumbled, "except
      I'm the house-elf. And she's trying to kill <em class="calibre8">me</em> with her
      deformed mittens."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What does that –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a metaphor, Ron. Don't strain yourself trying to make
      sense of it," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I paced the floor of Ron's room, bursting with agitated energy.
      Usually, when I felt like this, I would relieve my tension by
      destroying something. But magic was not permitted over the summers,
      and I refused to break things with my hands like a Muggle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She'd probably forget about it if we got out of the house for a
      bit," Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I stopped pacing. That seemed reasonable, for a Weasley
      suggestion. As much as Hermione struggles to care about things that
      are traditionally immoral, a quick distraction usually causes her
      to lose interest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron continued, "I bet even a couple of days would do it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm listening."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">I woke up early the morning after the World Cup – no surprise
      since I'd spent most of the previous day sleeping. Ron had been
      rather upset at Hermione's and my disinterest in the game –
      insisting upon waking me up every ten minutes and snatching
      Hermione's book from her hands – but he forgot our "betrayal"
      easily enough after the Cup's climactic finish. At least, I presume
      it was climactic; I slept through it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I left my invisibility cloak and other blankets crumpled on the
      couch as I wandered towards the tent's kitchen. The fridge was well
      stocked, but I'd never cared for cooking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dobby," I snapped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The house-elf arrived a few minutes later, looking nervous. "Yes
      Great Master Harry Potter sir?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're late," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dobby is sorry, so very sorry!" he cried, slamming his limbs
      violently against the floor in what might charitably be referred to
      as a bow. "Master Lucy came home very late, and he wanted me to
      fetch him pain potions. I did not want to be making him angry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't let him order you around so much," I ordered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby nodded, ears flapping and eyes shining rebelliously. This
      is why I don't keep house elves: The risk of betrayal is far too
      great. I continued, "Now, bring me whatever Lucius is having for
      breakfast."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginevra stumbled upon me half hour later, as I was polishing off
      some sort of giant egg set on a silver plate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry?" she gasped, then shouted, "He's right here!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A stampede of Weasleys and a lone Hermione stumbled, bleary-eyed
      from their rooms. Hermione cried indignantly, "Where have you
      been?! We were worried sick."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I frowned, confused and quite displeased with the feeling. "It's
      not like I don't usually sleep under the cloak."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's fists clenched, and she hissed, "You weren't in your
      bed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If I was in my bed, then that would destroy the whole point of
      sleeping invisible." I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She gave a little screech of frustration, while Mr. Weasley
      said, "I'm glad you're safe. I suppose you couldn't find us during
      the attack?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Attack?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One of the Weasley twins spoke, voice filled with the
      appropriate amount of awe. "You slept through a Death Eater
      attack?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a further ten minutes of failing to communicate (entirely
      the Weasleys' fault) I found out that a group of Death Eaters had
      come to wreak havoc, torment Muggles, and generally have a good
      time. I had slept through it, a skill I'd acquired during my reign
      of terror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was nice, I reflected, to see the Death Eaters taking the
      initiative. Perhaps they were paying homage to their fallen
      leader.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I don't know why else they would attack a Quidditch game.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">At the Head Table, Dumbledore began his start of term speech.
      First, he happily informed us that the Dementors had been removed
      due to our foreign visitors – apparently Beauxbatons takes a dim
      view on the consumption of their students' souls. Then, he turned
      to the topic of horrible deaths, as he does every year. I wasn't
      paying much attention, consumed by my thoughts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Triwizard Tournament had finally returned to Hogwarts. It
      hadn't been around when I was a student, or I would have another
      trophy to add to my collection. In fact, it hadn't been around for
      two centuries. Trust Dumbledore to revive a dangerous,
      Gryffindorishly reckless competition. Still, it fit well in the
      narrative of Harry Potter, vanquisher of the Dark Lord and future
      Hogwarts professor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As we stood to leave the Great Hall, Ginevra at our heels, Ron
      snatched some sweets from the table.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione sighed dramatically. "Do you really need more sugar,
      Ronald?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His words were mangled by a mouthful of food. "Ima gwwing
      boy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She wrinkled her nose. "You don't need sugar to grow; you aren't
      a bacteria. And that's disgusting!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're dis –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm going to win the Triwizard Tournament," I declared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?!" Hermione shrieked, once again paying attention to me.
      As is only appropriate. "Harry, that's even worse than your usual
      ideas. People die doing things like this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shrugged. "It can't be any more dangerous than going to school
      usually is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron frowned, jogging to keep pace with us as I sped up with
      enthusiasm and Hermione with righteous anger. "I dunno, Dumbledore
      thinks it's dangerous, and he hires werewolves as professors."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I said, "I still think I'll be fine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, you can't enter anyway," Hermione sniffed. "It's seventh
      years and older, no exceptions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That doesn't seem very fair. Even if we start doing it
      regularly again, it isn't due for five more years. I'll have
      graduated by then. Then I'll never get the chance to compete."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's for your own safety," she said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Goblet wouldn't choose me if I couldn't compete." At least,
      I didn't think it would. How <em class="calibre8">did</em> that work? "But it can
      hardly judge if I don't put in my name."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They'll put up protections to stop you," Hermione said with a
      desperate sort of hope.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll get around them," I assured her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll help, Harry," Ginevra said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, yes, I'd forgotten about you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We had reached the common room by then, going inside with a
      muttered, "Flobberworm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The familiar, red room, filled with chattering students, greeted
      us. I took the only available chair, earning an insolent glare from
      Hermione and a "Hey!" from Ron. Ginevra stood without complaint,
      which nearly made me regret my decision. I took a deep breath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, Ginevra, we have to talk about this" – I waved my hand
      vaguely – "following us thing. I didn't say anything before because
      we were at your house, and you should be able to stalk whomever you
      like at your house. But this is my house."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a school, Harry. It's nobody's house," Hermione said as
      she dug out her Transfiguration book, intent upon reading it for
      the third time before term.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I ignored her, of course. "Now, I appreciate your stepping in
      last year. You made a perfectly suitable substitute for Ron. But
      Ron's back, and he has seniority."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginevra pouted, asking, "Why can't we both be your friends?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shook my head. "We're already perilously close to a Weasley
      majority. I can't have the two of you stalemating."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not like we're the same person," Ginevra said. "I'm
      different from my brothers."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"See, now you sound exactly like Ron," I said. "This just isn't
      going to work. Right, Hermione?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione didn't even look up from her textbook. "I don't have a
      problem with Ginny."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right, Ron?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," he said, elaborating at his sister's betrayed look.
      "Sorry, Ginny, but you're my little sister and these are
      <em class="calibre8">my</em> friends. You should go spend time with your own
      friends."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron paused for a moment. "Uh, you do have friends, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginevra frowned but didn't answer. Several seconds passed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginny?" Ron asked nervously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm thinking," she snapped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione finished reading another twelve pages before Ginevra
      spoke again. "…Yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good," I said. "Then go and spend time in their company, earn
      their trust, fashion their loyalty, and when the time is right
      –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're starting to sound like a Slytherin, mate," Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right, yes. What I meant to say was: Have fun. Also,
      leave."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Moody's magical eye had locked upon me the moment I
      entered the classroom, and it hadn't moved yet. He was suspicious
      of me, I could tell, and I forced my face to remain impassive as he
      explained the topic of today's lesson:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Unforgivable Curses.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Still, I couldn't entirely quell my enthusiasm. They were my
      favorite curses, after all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So…do any of you know which curses are most heavily punished by
      wizarding law?" Moody asked, narrowing his eyes at the class as if
      one of us was going to burst into tears and confess to a heinous
      crime.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">My hand shot up, followed tentatively by Hermione's. Moody
      barked, "Go on, Granger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Imperius Curse," Hermione said, "It forces the victim to
      follow the caster's orders."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good," he said. Moody pulled out three cages, each holding a
      spider. He turned his wand upon one of them and forced it to dance.
      A few nervous giggles greeted its performance, though none of my
      classmates took their eyes from the arachnid.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Think it's funny, do you?" Moody asked. "You'd like it, would
      you, if I did it to you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, sir," Longbottom squeaked, shaking his head so quickly that
      it seemed ready to fly from his shoulders.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good, that's next lesson" – Moody laughed – "Anyone else know
      one? Another illegal curse?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">My hand returned to the air, but at least one of Moody's eyes
      looked to the back of the room. "You, in the back."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now he was just toying with me. I should have expected as much
      from an old friend of Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Longbottom said tentatively, "The Cruciatus Curse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your name's Longbottom?" Moody asked gruffly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Longbottom attempted to hide under his desk. This might have
      been more effective if Moody couldn't see through it. He enlarged
      the second spider, sparking terrified gasps from several students.
      A few slightly less terrified gasps came when he tortured it using
      the Cruciatus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And the last one?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Unable to hold back any longer, I shouted, "Avada Kedavra! The
      Killing Curse. It lets you kill things."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I suppose you would know about that," Moody said, giving
      me an unsettling smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was on to me. He was on to me, and Dumbledore had already
      given him permission to cast Unforgivables on students.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody continued, "You are the only survivor of that curse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I laughed weakly. "Yes, of course. I'm not sure why else I would
      know it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not like those bloody snakes," Ron grumbled. "I bet they've
      been casting them since they were in diapers."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody smirked, gave a nod to Ron, and cast Avada Kedavra on the
      final spider. As my classmates breathed a collective sigh of relief
      at the arachnid's death, Moody's eye almost popped out of his head
      to watch me closer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I hoped my curse would strike early this year.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">I tilted my head, examining the age line surrounding the Goblet
      of Fire. My sixty-eighth birthday was coming up, so it should let
      me through. Carefully, I nudged my foot against the line, feeling
      an ominous force pushing it back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Clearly, it responded to physical and not mental age. Of course,
      the Weasleys had artificially aged themselves and been thrown back
      regardless. Perhaps it required both? Or possibly Dumbledore had
      enchanted it to only allow Seventh Years in. Yes, I decided, that
      seemed reasonable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was probably for the best that I couldn't walk right through.
      That would raise all sorts of suspicions. No, I would have to take
      a more subtle approach.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wingardium Leviosa," I said. The parchment on which I'd
      scribbled my name smoothly levitated forward yet started shivering
      as it crossed the age line. Not far from the Goblet, it stopped
      altogether, crumpled into a ball, and ricocheted back. The ball
      bounced off my forehead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lip curled, I tossed the piece of parchment in the air and
      snarled, "Ventis."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It tumbled towards the Goblet atop a spiral of wind which
      knocked over several unsuspecting passersby. It then returned at
      equal speed, again hitting my forehead.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">I was crouched on the stone floor, putting the last touches on
      my latest attempt to enter the tournament, when Ron and Hermione
      interrupted me an hour later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"'Bout time. We've been looking for you all over. Hermione
      thought you were in the <em class="calibre8">library</em>." Ron made a face that was
      – for once – intentionally stupid.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry spends plenty of time in the library," Hermione said.
      "It's not my fault you like to pretend he's some sort of Quidditch
      fanatic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's coming around," Ron said with an offended look. "He
      practically begged me to organize a game last year, and he went to
      the Cup with us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Two instances is hardly evidence of a trend, Ronald," Hermione
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure it isn't, 'Mione" – Ron faked a cough – "Jealous."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not jealous," Hermione mumbled, "and you know I hate that
      nickname."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Grinning, Ron turned his attention to me. "What are you doing on
      the floor?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Beating the age line," I said. I added another slash of ink
      onto the stone. It was a little wobbly and looked more like a
      dragon than a unicorn, so I vanished it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione leaned over to peek at my work. She gasped. "Those are
      NEWT level runes. You don't even take Ancient Runes!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You aren't the only one who reads, Hermione," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She glanced triumphantly at Ron. "I told you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, what's it do?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione cleared her throat. "Well, I've only read about it in
      passing, mind you. It's a very complicated work, though not all
      that uncommon among Curse Breakers who need to move something that
      they can't touch, or in cases where other means of magical
      transportation might damage an object. It makes extensive use of
      the rune –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, but what does it do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione sniffed haughtily. "I was getting to that. It's used
      for teleporting things."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dunno why you can't just say that," Ron muttered. "Always have
      to go off on some –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"AT LAST!" I cried, rising from the ground. "I've completed it.
      Oh, sure, Dumbledore protected against physical intrusion and
      simple spells. But he could never have prepared for something so
      intricate, so far above anything he would expect of a mere child.
      But I am more than that. I am Harry Potter, and I will not be
      thwarted by the likes of <em class="calibre8">him</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I smirked, dropping the ball of parchment atop the rune and
      laughing as it popped away. My eyes darted to the Goblet. The
      parchment appeared directly above it, only millimeters from the
      top. But it didn't fall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It flew backwards and onto my forehead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As it fell to the ground, my eye twitched.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I hadn't experienced such intense fury since the dementor
      incident. I snatched up the crumpled parchment and blindly flung it
      at the Goblet. It traveled uninterrupted as it passed the age line,
      bounced against the Goblet's interior, and fell inside.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron gaped. "You can just throw it in?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," I said. "They would never think to protect against
      the most base, mundane, Muggle methods. After all, who would stoop
      so low?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I smirked, congratulating myself on my astounding success. "Ron,
      bring me more paper. In fact, bring me all the paper you can find.
      Ink, too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron scurried off to do my bidding. Hermione, always questioning
      my decisions, asked, "Why do you need paper?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have to put my name in more times, obviously," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She pursed her lips. "No, you only need to put your name in
      once."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, that is what they would have you believe," I said, "but
      I've contemplated this thoroughly. No one knows how the Goblet
      works or why it chooses the student it does. Oh, sure, sometimes it
      picks a great fighter with unmatched cunning, but, others, it picks
      someone whose name was put in as a joke or a Hufflepuff."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In retrospect, I was being redundant.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So?" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a lottery."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione rolled her eyes. "That's ridiculous."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, believing that a big cup can choose the greatest champion
      based on a name on a slip of paper is ridiculous. What's it do,
      analyze the handwriting?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's very advanced magic," Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or it picks a name at random. What do <em class="calibre8">you</em> think is
      more likely?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron raced towards me, a stack of parchment in hand. "Got
      'em."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I nodded. "Good, now get more."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He took off again. I tore a strip of parchment off a sheet,
      scribbled my name, and shoved it into Hermione's hands. "Make use
      of your terrible, Muggle origins and start throwing."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"And, from Beauxbatons, Fleur Delacour," Dumbledore said. A
      haughty witch in powder blue flounced towards the back room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione shot me a triumphant look. "See? Both of the champions
      were their schools' favorites to win, and they're each very
      talented. It's not a lottery."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I laughed, admiring her pigheaded attachment to an obviously
      incorrect theory. "That's probably because they were the only ones
      who entered."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you sure?" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I spent eight hours camped out next to the Goblet yesterday.
      I'm pretty sure."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Finally," Dumbledore said. "For Hogwarts School of Witchcraft
      and Wizardry…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A third slip of parchment shot into his hands atop a jet of
      green flame. "…Harry Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Told you," I said, standing to take a bow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A wave of disgruntled whispers echoed across the Great Hall. I
      don't know why any of them were surprised. Honestly, who were they
      expecting? A Hufflepuff?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A Durmstrang student gasped. "They can't actually let him
      compete. He's a Fourth Year!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A Seventh Year Hufflepuff sighed. "It's always the bloody
      Gryffindors."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He must have cheated!" Draco Malfoy cried.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, he cheated," one of the Weasley twins shouted. "What did
      you think he was doing in the Great Hall yesterday – making paper
      airplanes or something?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I smirked. "I am the best at cheating, or I wouldn't have been
      chosen by the Goblet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That doesn't make any sense," a Beauxbaton student said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I ignored them, sauntering towards the door where the previous
      champions had exited. Suddenly, the Goblet flared again, and
      Dumbledore cleared his throat. "It appears to be Harry Potter
      again…in different handwriting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Merlin's tit, Harry broke the cup!" Ron yelled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I said, "I hope it doesn't do that with all the entries."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore appeared troubled. "My boy, just how many times
      <em class="calibre8">did</em> you put your name in?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, three hundred or so. A lot bounced off the rim, so it was
      difficult to keep track," I admitted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How the hell did you manage that?" someone shouted from the
      Slytherin table.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was a lot easier once I got the house-elf production line
      going," I said. "I never thought I would be so grateful for
      Hermione's literacy program."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't start that so they'd be better slaves," Hermione
      snapped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And yet that was still the result," I said. The harder she
      struggled against her naturally evil tendencies, the greater the
      eventual damage became. It was awe-inspiring, really.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I left Hermione to her anger and followed the other
      champions.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Twenty minutes later, we were still waiting in the same room.
      Delacour actively ignored me, while Krum's abortive attempts at
      conversation faltered before the shouting going on a few feet away.
      I watched in amusement as the judges squabbled over my entry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With her champion's fervent support, the Beauxbatons
      Headmistress insisted that competing against a fourteen-year-old
      wasn't very sporting. I personally had no problem beating children
      a third my age. The event organizer, Crouch, was similarly worried
      that Britain would be at a disadvantage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In contrast, Igor Karkaroff feared the overwhelming power
      implied by the night I vanquished myself. It was hard to say if
      that was a sign of his intelligence, cowardice, or paranoia. Or
      perhaps he'd simply seen that Dumbledore was twinkling again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, now, there's nothing to be done but let him compete,"
      Dumbledore said. "The Goblet of Fire is magically binding, and the
      boy was chosen by it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Twice," I added helpfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We wouldn't want him to lose his magic, or even his life,
      because we were trying to protect him," he continued, smiling
      serenely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They couldn't argue with Dumbledore – no one ever can for long –
      so the judges begrudgingly agreed to let me compete and stormed off
      to sulk elsewhere. Their champions soon followed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lemon drop?" Dumbledore asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shook my head, unwilling to risk whatever concoction he'd
      devised to punish me for this latest scheme.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No one ever wants my lemon drops," he sighed dramatically.
      Dumbledore popped a lemon drop in his mouth, winked at me, and left
      as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus sneered at me from the corner of the room, sweeping
      forward only when everyone else had left. "You really are
      <em class="calibre8">exactly</em> like your father – an arrogant, conceited,
      reckless fool with no regard for your own or others' safety. But
      even he would not have been so moronic as to enter a dangerous
      magical competition. Repeatedly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I gave him a lazy smile. Bantering with Severus was such fun.
      "Well, what can I say? I'm a typical Gryffindor, not a slimy
      Slytherin like you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus's eyes flashed with fury, and he leaned in so close that
      spittle flew at my face. "Do you think this is a game, Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Technically, it's a tournament," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus drew back, almost physically reigning in his emotions.
      He was silent for several moments, his lip curled in disgust at
      what he was about to do. "I think it's about time you were actually
      punished. Twenty points from Slytherin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">My eyes widened. "You can't do that! I'm not even in that
      house."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus smiled cruelly, drawling, "Five more for your cheek," as
      he walked away.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't understand," Hermione asked as we made our way towards
      the common room. "Why doesn't he just give you detention?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I chuckled. "Oh, he tried that back in First Year. So long as
      he's there, I rather enjoy them, and, if they're unsupervised, I
      try to brew Felix Felicis and leave him to clean up the resulting
      poisons. The detentions are inevitably more of a punishment for him
      than me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We passed through the portrait entrance. Inside, a party was in
      full swing. They'd been planning this ever since the tournament was
      first announced because the Hogwarts champion was obviously going
      to be a Gryffindor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A cheer erupted when the partiers spotted us, and someone shoved
      a butterbeer in my hand. I grinned, announcing, "My plan has
      finally come to fruition. Snape has decided to take points from
      Slytherin every time I annoy him. We are going to sweep the Cup for
      the NEXT FOUR YEARS!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A second cheer went up, and a few people slapped me on the back.
      They soon turned their attention towards a keg of Weasley-smuggled
      firewhiskey. As we jostled our way through the crowd, Hermione
      said, "Harry, you weren't actually planning…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you've just suddenly stopped rooting for Slytherin?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I came to a very important realization today," I said. "It
      doesn't matter what color the Great Hall is during the Leaving
      Feast or who gets bragging rights for the next year. What matters
      is that <em class="calibre8">I</em> am the one who decides."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There is something seriously wrong with you," Hermione
      murmured.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," I said. "Speaking of something seriously wrong,
      there's Ron!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron sat in a bright-red armchair, an island of misery among the
      jovial crowd. He stared morosely at the contents of a textbook.
      Something was obviously amiss. Ron doesn't read.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ron?" Hermione said softly. "Are you alright?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron shrugged, muttering, "Yeah, I just…well, I was just hoping
      it would be me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I plucked the book from his lap before he became confused and
      tried to eat it or something. "You had your twelve chances, Ron.
      It's no one's fault that the Goblet chose me in its lottery. Except
      possibly Dumbledore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can't blame Dumbledore for all your problems, Harry,"
      Hermione sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shook my head. "This is different. I'm blaming him for
      <em class="calibre8">Ron's</em> problems."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">A/N: <em class="calibre8">Seventh Horcrux</em> is now completed on
      SpaceBattles, with omakes being posted every couple of days. As
      always, the link is on my profile.</strong></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
