<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter Seventh Horcrux - Seventh Horcrux Chapter 8: HP vs Alastor Moody (Pt 3), a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter Seventh Horcrux"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s8" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 8: HP vs Alastor Moody (Pt 3)</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Seventh Horcrux</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span>Chapter 5: Harry Potter vs. Alastor Moody (Pt.
      3)</span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was breakfast time, but Hermione wasn't eating. She held my
      golden egg in her hands, staring down at it with pinched lips. "I
      can't believe you're just ignoring this. I mean, really, Harry,
      this is a very dangerous competition. You can't just throw away
      opportunities to prepare yourself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't need the help, and I've always despised riddles," I
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It probably isn't even that hard!" Hermione cried. "I could
      solve it for you, and Viktor's already figured it out. I could ask
      him –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, Hermione. That would be cheating."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You cheat all the time," Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's true," I admitted. "But I cheat in ways that require
      skill and dedication. Asking a competitor is just pathetic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not like he's a Slytherin or anything." Ron glared at the
      green table, as he often does.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I could tell that Hermione hadn't entirely given up by the way
      she frowned down at the egg, not even noticing when Ron stole her
      biscuit. She absentmindedly paid an owl for the day's Prophet, and
      the owl stole Ron's newly-acquired biscuit. Ron was shouting at it
      when one of our classmates – Lavender Brown – leaned over.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I <em class="calibre8">hate</em> to be the bearer of bad news," the blonde
      crooned in a way that said quite the opposite, "but you might want
      to read that paper."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Startled, Hermione opened it and let out an indignant squawk.
      "What is wrong with that Skeeter woman?!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What did she do?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She wrote about me, and she's talking like I'm some sort of" –
      Hermione wrinkled her nose – "seductress."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She cleared her throat, quoting, "The rather plain girl has been
      working her way through Hogwarts' most eligible bachelors. First,
      she led on likely Triwizard Tournament winner Harry Potter. Then,
      she had an infamous tryst with Draco Malfoy" – Ron choked on his
      mouthful of food – "Now, she's moved on to seventeen-year-old
      Bulgarian National Quidditch Team seeker, Viktor Krum. With two
      Triwizard competitors under Miss Granger's thumb, this reporter has
      to ask: Could a certain veela be the next champion charmed?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That…that…" Hermione's fingers were white as she clutched the
      golden egg. "I won't let her get away with this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a fervent gleam in her eye, Hermione stormed from the hall,
      not even noticing that she still held my prize from the First Task.
      I almost felt sorry for Skeeter. She had no idea who she'd trifled
      with when she'd revealed Hermione's latest scheme.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"You alright, mate?" Ron asked, nervously peering into the black
      depths of the lake as we waited for the Second Task to begin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Absolutely fine," I declared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can be, um, underwater? Without dying?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm Harry Potter," I said flatly, "and you're starting to sound
      like Hermione."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron shuddered at the comparison. "Right. Sorry, mate. It's just
      that I've heard drowning really sucks, and Hermione is…wherever she
      is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione had disappeared, no doubt busy plotting against her
      newest enemy. There hadn't been time to find a substitute, so it
      seemed that Ron was attempting to fulfill both roles. This would
      have been admirable if he wasn't failing so spectacularly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I surveyed the area. Spectators milled about the lake, sometimes
      poking a foot in only to hastily withdraw it once they felt the
      frigid water. The Weasley children had consumed a large portion of
      the stands, as per usual, and Ron headed towards them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody was stalking about, glaring at everyone who looked
      slightly suspicious. This list included Karkaroff, Severus, and me.
      Draco Malfoy practically fell into the lake in an attempt avoid
      him. The boy had been suprisingly timid since his return from
      Christmas break. Clearly, his confidence was shaken by Hermione's
      rejection.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The current object of her affections waved me over from his
      place at the starting line. Krum asked, "Do you know vhere
      Er-my-o-knee is?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shrugged. "Probably in the library plotting against Skeeter.
      It's the sort of thing she does."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Krum nodded, chuckling. "You did not find the clue?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't need to," I said. "It's just water."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One of the judges – a pompous ministry worker whose name I
      hadn't bothered learning – cleared his throat. "Everyone is ready
      to start, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Krum nodded, but Delacour and I merely shot the judge disdainful
      looks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The judge looked nervous. "Alright. The Second Task will start
      on my whistle. The champions have precisely an hour to recover
      what's been taken from them. The task begins in 3…2…1."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He blew a whistle, and I immediately whirled around to face
      Delacour. I shouted, "Silencio!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was sputtering soundlessly when I left. It was possible she
      would manage to overpower my spell and regain her voice, provided
      she knew the countercharm. But Beauxbatons had a poor reputation
      for nonverbal magic, and a slight delay would give me a head start
      in the race.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I jumped over the lake, casting the Ebublio Jinx at my chest. A
      large bubble full of air surrounded me, as I sunk into the lake. I
      cast the Aqua Eructo Charm, causing a jet of water to shoot from my
      wand. This propelled me forward, deep into the water and towards
      the merpeople's song.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I continued like that for some time. The Ebublio bubble
      protected me from the freezing lake water and various nuisances,
      such as Grindylows. As time passed, however, it grew thinner and
      more fragile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eventually, I realized that I was being followed. A glance
      backwards revealed an enormous shark coming after me. It was
      clearly charmed to attack competitors. A severing charm sent it
      hurtling towards the bottom of the lake, clouds of red floating in
      its wake.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not long afterwards, I encountered the first roughly-hewn,
      dilapidated homes of the merpeople village. The hideous creatures
      peered out at me from their glassless windows, their grey-skinned
      faces framed by seaweed-like hair. I never tried to recruit the
      mermen in my previous life, primarily because they creep me
      out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the town square, a whole crowd of them were gathered. They
      continued to sing, yellow eyes watching as I ended the Ebublio
      bubble and replaced it with a Bubblehead Charm. A great, stone
      statue of a merman towered at their center, three girls tied to his
      tail – Hermione, Ginevra, and a young blonde.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I paused before them, considering the situation. Clearly, there
      was one hostage for each competitor. But who was mine?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If I had to choose one to save, it would undoubtedly be
      Hermione. Yet she had gone to the Yule Ball with Krum, just as
      Ginevra had with me.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The hostage wasn't based upon one's Yule date, however, because
      I was fairly certain that Delacour had not gone with a little girl.
      Beyond that, it was entirely possible I had interacted with the
      child before and simply didn't remember.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I refused to lose points for rescuing the wrong person. Hermione
      or Ginevra were both perfectly reasonable options, and the little
      girl wasn't out of the question, either. At that point, it was just
      easier to take them all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I threw a blasting curse at the base of the statue's tail.
      Suddenly, the merpeople stopped singing. They raised their spears
      and approached me. I was surrounded.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"While that does explain Mr. Krum's unfortunate injury and your
      decision to take all three hostages – destroying a merperson relic
      in the process – I'm afraid I still don't understand what you did
      afterwards," Dumbledore said, looking very tired.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was a small improvement over the rest of the judges, who
      appeared livid.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was a perfectly logical decision," I insisted. "The mermen
      were using their environmental advantage against me. So I took it
      from them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You banished all the water in the lake. You truly don't
      consider that excessive?" Dumbledore asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not at all. Besides, I figured the spectators would have a
      better time if they could actually watch the task. Really, I was
      doing you all a favor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore said, "But the merpeople are unable to survive on air
      for more than a few minutes. You greatly endangered their lives, my
      boy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I raised an eyebrow. "They greatly endangered mine first when
      they attacked me with spears, and, really, a few less mermen is
      hardly a problem. They kill more students than the moving
      staircase…and we all know what I did to the moving staircase."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The denizens of Hogwarts simultaneously shivered, though the
      foreigners seemed rather perplexed. Karkaroff scowled. "Viktor Krum
      also had gills at the time, and he was already injured by your
      attack."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And my Fleur was fifty feet in ze air when ze water
      disappeared!" Madame Maxime said, "and zat is after ze 'orrible boy
      cast a Silencing Spell on 'er."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There weren't any rules that said I couldn't attack the
      competition. Honestly, I thought that was the entire point," I
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was a race, not a duel," Karkaroff said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, exactly, and I won," I said. "In fact, I'm the only one
      who brought his hostage back at all…whichever one she was."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginevra Weasley," Dumbledore said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shook my head, dismayed by their ridiculous expectations. "How
      was I supposed to guess that? We aren't even friends."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some distance across the grounds, a still-dripping Ginevra said,
      "We will be!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shivered. This was beginning to remind me uncomfortably of the
      Bellatrix situation. "And I'm not sure why you think it's my
      responsibility to protect everyone. It's your competition. You
      should have expected I would do something like this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody grunted, "That's why I put up the splash guard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"See, why can't you all be like Moody?" I asked. We all turned
      our attention towards the ex-auror, who was currently shimmering
      with no less than twenty protective charms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore sighed. "Could you return the lake water, now that
      the task is over?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would do that," I said, "except that I'm not entirely sure
      where I sent it."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Meanwhile, at Privet Drive</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Petunia Dursley stood knee-deep in the flooded street, staring
      blankly at what was once her house. The front door had floated to
      the very end of her waterlogged lawn. Every window was broken, and
      what little she could see of her immaculate carpets and organized
      kitchen was entirely ruined. She didn't dare to think of what had
      happened to the garden.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As she picked up a floating photograph of baby Dudley, Petunia
      wondered – for a moment – where her life had gone so wrong. But the
      answer was obvious:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The moment she accepted Harry Potter into her life. This was all
      his fault. Things usually were.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a firm set to her mouth and her spindly fingers curled into
      a fist, Petunia trudged towards her home in the hope that some of
      her previous life was still salvageable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They were, she decided, moving.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Holy harpies! Have you seen this?" Ginevra Weasley cried,
      ruining a perfectly peaceful breakfast.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron's head jerked up, and he asked, "Muh? Wha's it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're talking with your mouth full again, Ronald," Hermione
      chided. She hadn't even stirred at Ginevra's exclamation, idly
      reading a book on Charms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginevra waved the morning Prophet at us so that it rustled a
      bit. "They printed a retraction! I didn't even know they could do
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It must have been a grievous error to prompt them to admit a
      mistake. They've probably offended hundreds of wizards, or perhaps
      a truly powerful group," I said thoughtfully. "What was the article
      about? The Wizengamot? Dumbledore? The Dark Lord?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, it was about Hermione, actually," Ginevra said. "Skeeter
      says that she trusted the wrong source, Hermione actually wasn't
      dating everyone in school, and Skeeter felt 'compelled to correct
      this mistake due to her journalistic integrity.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I slowly turned to face Hermione, who had returned to her book
      with a pleased smirk on her face. "Hermione…what did you do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who says I did anything?" Hermione sniffed. "Maybe Rita Skeeter
      just realized that she made a mistake –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even Ron snorted in response to that. "Yeah, right. I'm with
      Harry: You did something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's pretty obvious," Ginevra agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Giggling, Hermione glanced around nervously but nodded. "Well,
      alright. We probably shouldn't talk about this here, though. It's
      rather public."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Behaving like a Slytherin, 'Mione," Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't care, Ronald," she said in a sing-song voice. She was
      positively giddy. I was beginning to feel legitimately concerned
      for Rita Skeeter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stood. "Shall we go, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shook my head. "No need. Muffliato."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The surrounding conversations turned to an insect-like buzzing.
      Hermione sat back down and asked, "Ooh, is that an
      anti-eavesdropping charm? I've read about those."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm well aware that you've read about everything, and, yes, it
      is an anti-eavesdropping spell. The only people who can understand
      our conversation now are the three of us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">My point was punctuated by a sudden and loud buzzing from across
      the table as Ginevra realized that she was not included in the
      charm. Ron edged away from his rapidly-reddening sister. "So how'd
      you do it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione said, "I was out on the grounds, practicing an animagus
      detection charm. It seemed like a good idea after the attack from
      Sirius Black that Harry <em class="calibre8">never told me about</em>" – she glared
      at me before resuming – "Imagine my surprise when it came back
      positive. Apparently, Rita Skeeter has been skulking around as a
      beetle. So I caught her in my hand – "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You squished her, didn't you?" I asked. Suddenly, everything
      was very clear to me: The retraction, Skeeter's claims of
      journalistic integrity, Hermione's inexplicable good mood…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She sputtered. "W-what? But…Harry, she just published an
      article."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Polyjuice potion. It would allow you to impersonate her for
      long enough to get the article through, and it would also keep
      anyone from knowing she was missing, obscuring her time of death.
      Since she died in her animagus form, there isn't a corpse. It's the
      perfect crime."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would never –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not like you haven't done something like this before," I
      said. "Don't you remember Second Year? I shudder to think what
      would have happened if we hadn't stopped you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione growled low in her throat. "You are just horrible
      sometimes!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not the one who killed a reporter," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, I don't think she killed anyone," Ron said. "Right,
      Hermione?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Obviously," she huffed. "I'm just threatening to report that
      she's an illegal animagus. I also kept her in a bottle for a
      while."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I frowned. "For how long?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A couple of days," Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you feed her?" I asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione paled. "It didn't really occur to me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You gave her water at least…" I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shook my head, caught between admiration and shock. "And now
      you're blackmailing her? I don't know why you didn't just kill her
      quickly. It would have been kinder."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I have a great distaste for most forms of torture. My only
      exception to this is Crucio, which is much cleaner and does not
      have as many long-lasting side effects. Well, unless the victims
      are driven insane. I rarely kept prisoners long enough to reach
      that point, however, and opted to kill as often as possible.
      Further, I sought to never leave a child orphaned for more than a
      few minutes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And people said I was immoral!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron said, "That doesn't seem fair. It's not like she meant to
      hurt her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Intention is irrelevant. Besides," I said, "who knows when
      Skeeter will try to retaliate. She could be here right now.
      Listening."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We fell into a wary, thoughtful silence. The only sound was the
      persistent buzzing of Ginevra Weasley.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"I feel a sense of impending doom," I declared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Isn't that how you always feel?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is stronger than usual."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I glanced around the area surrounding Dumbledore's enormous maze
      with a thoughtful air. Moody limped outside, glaring at anyone who
      dared to look at him for more than a moment. I turned my attention
      swiftly away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginevra hovered nearby. She had ingratiated herself with a group
      of younger Hufflepuffs, but she was clearly paying more attention
      to Ron and I than her companions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore, Karkaroff, and Madame Maxime were arguing about
      something at the judge's table. Hermione stood nearby, spoke a few
      words, and then fled their continued shouting. For a moment, I
      wondered if she and Dumbledore were collaborating on an insidious
      plan. But, no, that was ridiculous. Hermione would never share her
      power with Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Delacour was chattering in animated French with her family.
      Krum, though surrounded by his own family, seemed distracted. His
      eyes darted around uneasily and his mouth was set in a firm
      line.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione, hurrying back from the judge's table, said, "Maybe you
      wouldn't be so nervous if you'd actually prepared for the
      task."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I scoffed. "I'm not nervous, Hermione. I'm suspicious."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Paranoid," Ron muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I turned to Hermione. "Right, speaking of Moody, I want you to
      watch him. I think he might try something today."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione rolled her eyes. "Harry, Moody isn't going to –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For Merlin's sake, Hermione! For once in your life, try to save
      a friend instead of killing him," I snapped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her lips twisted in an ugly manner, but the girl begrudgingly
      turned her attention towards Moody. I cleared my throat and spoke
      to Ron. "And you should watch Krum. He seems suspicious."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry!" Hermione cried.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I knew you wouldn't be objective about this. That's why I've
      entrusted the task to Ron."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron grinned, looking pleased with himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginevra sidled a little closer to us. "I can watch Fleur."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I waved her off. "Do whatever you like."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While Ginevra busied herself with her useless idea, I would
      observe the most likely candidate: Dumbledore. I glared at him as
      he sat perfectly calm amid his fellow judges' bickering, smug
      beneath his white beard and floral robes. Despicable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What were you doing over there, anyway?" Ron asked
      Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, um…" Hermione suddenly fell into a coughing fit, and I
      edged away from her. I had no intention of catching some sort of
      Muggle disease.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She cleared her throat and spoke primly. "Sorry about that. I
      must have gotten a bit of a cold during the last task."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But it's been four months," Ron said. Even without moving my
      gaze from Dumbledore, I could picture the wrinkling of his Weasley
      face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Certain viruses are able to incubate for long periods, and my
      immune system was heavily compromised. I just went over to ask
      Dumbledore about the Ancient Runes curriculum. I was confused
      about…the order in which certain runes are taught, but he explained
      it to me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's nice, Hermione," I said absentmindedly. Dumbledore's
      skeletal hand gripped his wand, and he rose smoothly. Moody had
      migrated to his side – something I would have been aware of earlier
      if Hermione had been taking her sentry duties seriously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore pointed his wand towards himself, and I suppressed my
      disappointment when he only cast a Sonorous Charm. His voice echoed
      across the grounds, drawing everyone's attention. "Much as it pains
      me to further delay this exciting event. We have decided upon a few
      rules for the task."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Curious whispering swept the crowd. Dumbledore peered down at a
      roll of parchment. "First, there will be no intentionally damaging
      the maze through means including – but not limited to – flooding
      it, setting it on fire, tearing it apart with wind or explosive
      magic, dismantling the runes that constructed it, or the use of
      fiendfyre."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh come on, like anyone would seriously use fiendfyre," one of
      the older Hogwarts students grumbled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Karkaroff glared darkly in my direction. "It needed to be
      said."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nor can anyone remove the maze from school grounds."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not even temporarily?" I asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, Mr. Potter," Dumbledore said with a merry twinkle of his
      eyes. "Second, any deaths that occur (whether of humans or
      creatures) will be examined and may lead to the loss of the
      championship. Further, no one is permitted to sabotage their fellow
      champions prior to entering the maze."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ooh, Fleur looks mad," Ginevra said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fleur did, indeed, look mad. Her clenched jaw seemed to harden
      her cheekbones, and a red line flushed across her face. With a
      string of French curses, she slashed her wand downwards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">My feeling of impending doom fell to its normal level. Krum also
      seemed to relax. He waved happily at Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore said, "Third, no champion may bring a magical
      artifact, aside from their wand, inside the maze."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shoved my invisibility cloak at Ron, scowling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fourth, no one is allowed to summon the Cup."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, there went Plan A.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I suspect Dumbledore realized that, as well. Why else would he
      be so sickeningly cheerful? "Finally, no champion may enlist the
      aid of any other human or magical creature, such as a
      house-elf."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Oh, that was why.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I whirled around to glare at Hermione. "Oh, come on! That isn't
      even fair."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Neither is using <em class="calibre8">slave labor</em> to <em class="calibre8">cheat</em>," she
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It wasn't cheating until he said it was."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was morally!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't pretend to care about morals now" – I ran a hand through
      my hair – "What am I supposed to do? Dumbledore just got rid of all
      my good plans."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why don't you just go and do the maze the way it's supposed to
      be done?" Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ron, that's ridiculous. I'm not some sort of Gryffin…on second
      thought, that's genius."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is?" Ron said, undermining his short burst of
      intelligence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've been acting too much like a Slytherin lately," I said.
      "Yes, it's ensured my success. But what sort of victory will it be
      when everyone decides I'm evil and refuses to hire me in a teaching
      position? No, I will win this like a Gryffindor."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">On fire for the third time in the past half-hour, I reflected
      that acting like a Gryffindor was a terrible idea. I should have
      known this earlier, of course, because it was Ron's.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I cast Aguamenti to put out the fire, but my impressive power
      made the jet of water significantly larger than I intended.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wet and miserable, I trudged through the maze. It was at that
      point that I saw the sphinx. I groaned. Great, more riddles. I was
      beginning to wonder if the tournament was designed by a
      Ravenclaw.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sphinx turned her almond-shaped eyes to me, looking far too
      pleased with herself considering she was almost certainly going to
      die at my hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She said, "You are very near your goal. The quickest way is past
      me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I pointed my wand at the creature. "If you value your life, I
      would suggest you move."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sphinx chuckled gruffly. "If you value yours, I would
      suggest you not attack me. Solve my riddle and –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait a second," I said. "What if I tell you a riddle, and – if
      you can't solve it – you let me pass?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sphinx cocked her head curiously. "I accept your challenge,
      though I warn you; there is no such thing as a riddle I cannot
      solve. And, when I solve it, you shall have to find another
      path."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a good thing you won't, then. I can't afford to waste
      time." This was primarily because the judges refused to let me
      enter the maze first even though I clearly won every task.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your riddle?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I nodded, taking a few moments to fix it in my head. Smirking, I
      began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Born in a garden, I live in a house.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sleeping with lions, I'm more of a mouse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When death comes to collect me</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A hungry grim is all I see."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sphinx was thoughtful for a few minutes, finally saying,
      "The answer is man."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wrong," I said. The answer was: Ron's dead rat. Or,
      alternatively, whatever I decided it was because I'm not going to
      play fair when my victory is at stake.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sphinx's mouth fell open, reminding me of Hermione. "But
      that's impossible! The answer is clearly man."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, it isn't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then what is the answer?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I sighed heavily. "Look, if I had gotten it wrong, would you
      have told me the answer? No, because that would only disrespect my
      intelligence."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sphinx attacked me then. This is exactly the reason everyone
      dislikes magical creatures. They go back on their deals and are
      just generally unreasonable.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">I followed Delacour's screams. This wasn't out of any foolish,
      Gryffindor chivalry. It was simply the intelligent thing to do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The maze had been suspiciously easy. Oh, sure, it was filled
      with all sorts of monsters and traps, but this was designed by
      <em class="calibre8">Dumbledore.</em> Where were the deadly creatures?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The answer was obvious: They were surrounding the Cup.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ergo, whatever was killing Delacour was almost certainly at the
      center of the maze. Also, she was currently beating me, which was
      absolutely not okay.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I was fortunate. Delacour was only a few turns away, and a hasty
      point-me spell guided me to her. When I arrived, however, I paused
      in surprise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The girl was not being ravaged by a dragon or clubbed by a
      mountain troll. She was suffering under the Cruciatius, and the one
      casting it was none other than Viktor Krum.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Delacour let out a final shriek and fell unconscious, unable to
      take the pain any longer. Rage filled my chest, and my hands shook
      as they clenched my wand. How dare he…How dare he…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I spat, "Hermione taught you this. Didn't she?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">How dare he take advantage of Hermione's insidious genius! Only
      I'm allowed to do that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Krum turned towards me, his eyes devoid of emotion. It seemed
      that I had been right all along. Krum appeared to be a likable,
      perfectly ordinary student – like me – but he was nothing more than
      a cold, calculating schemer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">More importantly, he was a cold, calculating schemer who was
      trying to steal <em class="calibre8">my</em> victory and Hogwarts secrets. And that
      was simply unacceptable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I quirked an eyebrow. "No answer? Coward. Have you no –
      Stupefy!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Krum fell to the ground, body frozen. He'd never even lifted his
      wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that was depressingly easy," I muttered, already
      wandering off to find the Cup.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a few more minor skirmishes with the wildlife, I found it.
      The Triwizard Cup gleamed in the center of the maze. I took a
      moment to straighten my robes and smooth down my hair so that I
      would look properly impressive when I emerged victoriously outside
      of Hogwarts. After a moment's thought, I rumpled my clothes and
      tousled my hair again. That way I would look more heroic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Grinning, I grabbed my trophy and felt the familiar tug of a
      portkey at my navel. As the world began to twist and stretch me
      like taffy, I was struck by a sudden thought:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Was the Triwizard Cup supposed to do that?</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">A/N: I made a separate email account to catch all of the
      alerts I get when y'all fav, follow, or review (I am, indeed,
      WATCHING you all). I then forgot about that account for two weeks.
      In two weeks, I received four hundred and fourteen emails, among
      them somewhere between thirty and fifty reviews for this and other
      stories.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">I tend to edit in short bursts of two or three chapters,
      when time allows, and would usually wait a little longer before
      posting an update. But I am more than a little emotional over the
      response this story has received (both here, and back...is home the
      right word?...back home at SpaceBattles). Let's celebrate.
      :)</strong></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
