<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>41. Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence - Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence Chapter 21: Utilitarian Priorities Again, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="41. Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s21" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 21: Utilitarian Priorities Again</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Wolfsbane, Devil's Snare, Venomous Tentacula, Jumanjian Plot
      Kudzu, Eclipse Ivy, Spiky Ivy, Writhing Ivy, Screechsnaps,
      Puffapods, Saint Etheldreda's Flytraps, Bubotubers, Ultraviolets,
      Mandrakes – mostly Mandrakes. The Hogwarts greenhouse was filled to
      the brim with exotic magical plants, many of which refused to stay
      silent, ever, and it consequently felt like the busiest and most
      crowded section of the school, even though, at present, it
      contained only two members of the animal kingdom - both humans.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pomona Sprout, the Herbology Professor at Hogwarts, was not
      having a very good day. The most obvious manifestation of her
      not-very-good day had been when, during a fourth year Gryffindor
      class, a student had deigned to spell her name in small flaming
      letters, and rearrange them into a rude phrase. Pomona hated
      disrespect, nearly as much as she hated fire (seeing as it was the
      natural enemy of so many plants). But that incident (which had
      fortunately at least led to several students receiving detention)
      had merely been symptomatic of a larger-scale issue, wherein the
      public knowledge of her unwitting involvement in last year's evil
      subplot had led the school to see her in a different light –
      particularly now that new, more blatant evil was afoot, and it was
      convenient, at least for the sake of a joke, to suggest that she
      might be a tool of darkness again. She wasn't. Pomona Sprout was
      perhaps the single person at Hogwarts least involved in an evil
      plot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres, the Chief Warlock, didn't think
      he was having a very good day either, though the truth was that his
      problems were ultimately much less significant than those of
      Professor Sprout. After more than a year in the wizarding world, he
      had finally come up with a magical "cheat" that, though not quite
      an instant path to godhood, was still a damn sight more powerful
      than anything of its type that had previously existed.
      Unfortunately, this year was full of distractions: Bellatrix
      stirring up international crap and continuing to evade capture,
      Slytherin's Monster causing political drama right around Harry's
      own home, the Anti-Patronus doing
      Harry-didn't-even-know-what-but-it-sounded-very-bad... Why was
      Slytherin's Monster alive, anyway? Hadn't Voldemort heavily implied
      he'd killed it?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Maybe that was a ruse, just to keep Harry away from the Chamber.
      Harry had been looking for the Chamber ever since it had become a
      looming threat to Hogwarts students, but he had had little luck. It
      had been easy to find secret passageways hidden from the ninety
      nine percent of Hogwarts students who weren't Parselmouths; in
      fact, Voldemort had showed him one such passageway last year. But
      that was just the thing - they were easy to find, they were empty,
      and they were interconnected; they permeated the school, and were
      nearly as large. They connected with each other in no coherent way;
      occasionally there was a dangerous trap, or a cryptic device that
      certainly did <em class="calibre8">something</em>, but Harry didn't know what that
      something was. What there wasn't, as far as Harry could tell, was
      Slytherin's Monster, or a Chamber to contain it. Not that he'd
      explored enough of the labyrinth to really say that with a firm
      conviction. Harry had only penetrated the first layer of
      Slytherin's security, and he knew it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On top of all of these externalities, there were two inherent
      problems with Harry's new ascension idea: if the method ceased to
      be a secret, then murdering Harry suddenly became a much more
      attractive proposition for the world at large. And once the process
      was initiated, it would be very difficult not to expose what he had
      done, at least to those immediately around him. Therefore, it was
      only really appropriate for either an emergency (akin to The Night
      Of The Thirty-Seven, though it wouldn't have worked in a
      circumstance quite that constrained) or an
      about-to-dominate-the-world-anyway endgame. There was another
      problem with Harry's idea, but it was a very minor one, and he was
      working on it at the moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello, Professor Sprout," said Harry. She looked up from the
      Mandrake she was attending to and turned around.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, hello, Harry," said Professor Sprout.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Attending to the Mandrakes?" said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Professor Sprout. "The new batch are in their
      critical window."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah," said Harry. "For... Felix Felicis, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," said Professor Sprout, and something golden sprayed out
      of an atomizer in her hand into the pot. Harry silently allowed her
      to work, speaking up only when she seemed to be at a stopping
      point.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought that potion was so broken when I heard about it the
      first time," said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come again?" said Professor Sprout.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I mean..." said Harry. "I thought my understanding of it was
      too good to be true. And it was, because I'd misunderstood it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As many have," said Professor Sprout.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It tries to give you what you want, but it doesn't actually
      know what you want," said Harry. "It's not very smart, and it's not
      good at modeling the desires of organisms that are."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not a problem with Mandrake saplings," said Professor Sprout.
      "Bless their little hearts. The Felix makes them smarter if you
      give it to them when they're growing, but they're still just
      plants."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And when they're smarter, they're suitable for the Potion of
      Reanimation," said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Precisely, Harry," said Professor Sprout. She didn't generally
      refer to her students by their first names, but Harry, being who he
      was, had a different status altogether.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can still hear some of them screaming instead of babbling,
      though," said Harry. The babbling ones actually unnerved Harry more
      than the screaming ones, because, their vocalizations formed real
      words and sometimes even phrases. It was probably just a Markov
      chain, but still...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't remind me," said Professor Sprout. "Those are the ones I
      failed to properly administer the potion to. Total waste. Perfectly
      ordinary Mandrakes that are perfectly unsuitable for reviving the
      petrified. I'll have to put them down before their screams become
      dangerous to humans. I mean, not that the other ones are surviving
      either; I'll have to chop them up. And even the smartest Mandrakes
      scream when they're being killed." The Herbology Professor just
      laughed, and Harry decided not to model the mental processes that
      led to the laughter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Theoretically, because of how Felix Felicis works, any Mandrake
      <em class="calibre8">could</em> emerge from their critical window in the state of
      heightened intelligence," said Harry. "It's just an infinitesimally
      small chance." Professor Sprout stopped to consider this before
      accepting that it was essentially correct.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Professor Sprout. "The Felix just ensures it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Got it," said Harry. Harry weighed the value of the Mandrakes'
      lives with the value of his petrified classmates, before recoiling
      in horror – of course his classmates were more valuable. The
      Mandrakes were more intelligent than your average plant, but were
      easily less developed than a variety of animals Harry would've
      sacrificed to save human lives without even blinking. They were
      only marginally more ethically significant than an embryo. "I
      actually had a different question I came here to ask you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ask away," said Professor Sprout.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How would I purchase industrial quantities of Screechsnap Sap?"
      said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come again?" said Professor Sprout. "I understand that you want
      to know about purchasing Screechsnap Sap, correct? But there was
      something I was missing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Industrial quantities?" said Harry, and Professor Sprout seemed
      puzzled. Harry reminded himself that the concept of "industrial
      quantities" would be foreign to a wizard; mass-production was a
      little-known secret among them. "How would I buy it in bulk?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't imagine what you'd want it for," said Professor Sprout,
      "but Slug &amp; Jiggers Apothecary is your best bet, seeing as it's
      a potion ingredient. They might not have as much as you want in
      stock, depending on how absurd you're currently feeling, but you
      could always place an order with them. At Hogwarts we harvest our
      own sap, but we only make as much as we need year-to-year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," said Harry. "That's much more helpful than what
      Professor Slughorn said." If Professor Slughorn really wanted Harry
      to join his 'Slug Club', he'd have to do a lot better than
      answering Harry's questions with "Professor Sprout could probably
      give you a better answer".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're welcome," said Professor Sprout. "Are you going now? I
      really need to get back to work; this stockpile is critically
      important for preserving the integrity of Hogwarts' student body.
      I'm sure Headmistress McGonagall told you as well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed she did," said Harry, "and indeed I am. Going.
      Goodbye!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Goodbye," said Professor Sprout. Harry left, walking past a
      Mandrake that had just discovered a novel proof of the Pythagorean
      Theorem, a Mandrake wedding, and a heated Mandrake debate on
      whether humans were an intelligent species or a mysterious force of
      nature.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">BFIM!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">A noise that was high and low all at once in pitch, like a
      bullet ricocheting off of a drum at a near-flat angle, but
      deafeningly loud, shook Hogwarts' campus in the dark of the night.
      Accompanying it was a bright white beam of light, about as thick as
      a dinner plate, which suddenly burst out of the ground near the
      greenhouse and pierced the heavens. The beam persisted, and it gave
      off a quieter, but still awful, hum, and many were awoken, but many
      still decided to try to sleep.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">BFIM!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few moments later, a second, identical noise, alongside a
      second, identical beam, in a slightly different location. The
      ambient hum was twice as loud, now, and Headmistress McGonagall had
      already climbed out of bed and begun to rush downstairs. Her
      Time-Turner was jammed, a clear sign to her that Time was itself
      implicated in whatever was happening.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">BFIM!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">A third beam, and it was now geometrically obvious that the
      beams thus far assembled formed three of the four corners of a
      rectangle that would enclose the greenhouse. Harry, too, was now
      stirred, and his path downstairs would soon merge with Minerva's.
      Each was occupied with a slew of barely-coherent Patronus
      messages.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">BHUM!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The fourth and final beam knocked everyone down; its volume was
      not something one could account for. The new ambient noise, too,
      was far greater than a simple quadrupled form of the first ambient
      noise phase - for the space between the beams was now filled in
      with a translucent but distinctly visible field swimming with
      electric yellow "veins". Anything and anyone in the greenhouse was
      trapped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmistress screamed upon seeing Pomona Sprout inside the
      field, pounding on its perimeter with her fists, pleading
      unhearable. Still, she rallied all of the staff she had summoned to
      cast every spell they knew at the strange, unknown enchantment, to
      hopefully break it. Even Harry was brought in to cast his Patronus.
      But it could not penetrate the arcane shield, which simply absorbed
      many general use offensive spells Harry had never even previously
      heard of. Professor Columbus cast something that formed enormous
      spherical sponges in mid-air, that drew magic away from constructs
      around them before vanishing, but it had no visible effect. Worse
      still, the silhouette in the greenhouse was moving...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a figure shrouded in magical smoke; its movements were
      more like a banshee than a human, and even many professors would
      later swear it was an Inferius. It projected Fiendfyre from its
      arms, which grew to consume and melt the greenhouse. And it dragged
      Pomona Sprout into the blaze, to hasten her end. The Headmistress
      was running out of breath to scream with, but many others, who were
      trickling out of the castle to see the commotion up close, were
      only beginning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a magical burst (slightly muffled, as Harry vaguely
      recognized) and a sizeable percentage of Hogwarts' student body
      became able to see Thestrals.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the mangled wreckage of the greenhouse, the dark figure bent
      down, obsessively stroked the ashes as if they were its lover, and
      finally stood. The Fiendfyre had mostly died down, except for a few
      small pockets immediately to the figure's sides. It mechanically
      waved at the terrorized crowd, and the flames surged up around it;
      when they puffed out of existence seconds later, so too had the
      figure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">About a minute later, the protective field vanished - but there
      was immediately a muffled explosion that caved in the ground on
      which the greenhouse had stood, and Professor Flitwick sustained a
      broken bone. So ended the assault. The scene was roped off and
      thoroughly analyzed; several things of note were discovered. First,
      and a foregone conclusion, Professor Sprout's charred body. Second,
      a series of unusual, unknown magical artifacts - four stone discs
      that had clearly been used to generate the protective field, and
      one complex, multicolored widget, towards the center of the scene,
      with the letters "NB" carved into it but its purpose otherwise
      unknown. Third, something that the Aurors all nearly missed, but
      was of great interest to Harry. Fourth, absolutely no plants, none
      at all - at least none that were alive. Fifth, a message scrawled
      in the ashes: "YOU WILL BE PERMITTED TO GROW MANDRAKES WHEN THE
      INTERDICT IS ENDED". (This was foolish, explained the Headmistress,
      not only because there was no way to end the Interdict of Merlin,
      but because Hogwarts was obviously not the only site working to
      prepare Potions of Reanimation.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Five suspects were investigated. Hermione Granger was
      investigated first on the basis of her phoenix and its abilities
      resembling the mysterious figure's disappearance from the area, but
      it was quickly determined that phoenixes and Fiendfyre were
      mutually exclusive magical instruments; the same person could not
      wield both (and, in fact her phoenix was now in hiding as it was
      now considered vulnerable to attack). Harry James
      Potter-Evans-Verres identified an artifact at the scene as stolen
      from the Time Room at the Department of Mysteries, used to prevent
      Time-Turner-based examination of the attack. Ginny Weasley failed
      to show up promptly when summoned, but her alibi, that she was
      using the restroom at the time, and was only vaguely aware that a
      calamity was occurring, ultimately proved sufficient. Gilderoy
      Lockhart was detained because he was the Defense Professor, but no
      one could think of any other reason to suspect him. And Lesath
      Lestrange, who was not by any means the Heir of Slytherin, was held
      for questioning, owing largely to unrelated matters, though his
      location was unaccounted for during the incident. He was suspended
      from all classes indefinitely, on the request of Miss Tracey Davis.
      Following the public execution of Pomona Sprout, Lesath Lestrange
      was the only individual made to suffer consequences.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"And make no mistake about it," said Hermione. "If Hogwarts
      hadn't needed so badly to punish <em class="calibre8">somebody</em>, then Lesath
      Lestrange would still be alive."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
