<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>41. Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence - Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence Chapter 22: The Problem Of Suicide, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="41. Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s22" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 22: The Problem Of Suicide</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't mean-" said Tracey.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wizards can't be hanged-" said Colin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"-with Muggle rope, idiot," said Peregrine.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's such an advanced curse, though, where-" said
      Lavender.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's an older Slytherin boy and his mother is Bellatrix Black,"
      said Cho.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...I'm so sorry..." said Daphne Greengrass.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Meta Merlin..." said Harry. "I told him that I really regretted
      having to do this, but he should stop coming to-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not your fault, Harry," said Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's see..." said Luna, shuffling some cards, which Ginny
      distinctly saw go in and out of each other and transform via a
      magic she didn't know. "The Hanged Man in The Tower... that
      definitely means that Death is coming."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Death already came, Luna," said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," said Luna. "It's still coming. ...I'd better warn
      everyone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A student saw Lesath's corpse hanging in the Astronomy Tower
      before the Hogwarts administration managed to isolate the area to
      prepare a controlled release of information, so news spread rapidly
      through the student population. Nothing prevented Professor
      McGonagall from going back in time six hours to ensure there was no
      foul play involved, but of course she borrowed Hermione's cloak of
      invisibility to do it – if she contacted Lesath, she knew, she
      would be further causally linked to his death than she had to be.
      No direct evidence of evildoing was found; in fact, Lesath even
      enchanted the rope to hang a wizard himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lesath left a note, which read as follows:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To all beings:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I am faulty, not by an accident of Birth but by an Accident of
      Growth. I am the Scion of the Wicked and Most Reviled House of
      Lestrange. My Mother didn't do anything wrong, and yet you all
      believe that it is Her debt I must repay. In truth, I would say
      that it is my Fathers'. Tonight I leave this world and in your eyes
      complete the transition from Dark Lord to Light.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Until last year, I was mocked and scorned and beaten for the
      Lines that Created me. Now there are only whispers of that, though
      I know they are still there. Now I am feared and hated and punished
      for trying to start my own line, as I see naturally fit. You were
      all repulsed by the thought that I might someday be a Father, never
      mind that I don't believe I am like any of my Fathers, and being
      the Mother would not be made compulsory. I'm not like any of my
      Fathers? Am I? Your Repulsion has proven as contagious as dragon
      pox and I am now equally Repulsed by the thought of my Line
      continuing|</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It has recently been confided in me that I am 'Worth More Dead
      Than Alive'. If you figure out Who told me this, do not punish
      Them. They wern't being cruel. They only told me the Truth. I will
      now be Worth More. I will now cease to exist. When the
      Philosopher's Stone has destroyed Death, the better world you
      create will be better for not having me in it. Don't blame my
      Master and don't blame my Mother.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Last You'll See Of,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lesath Lestrange."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Headmistress McGonagall sent the rope that Lesath used to the
      Ministry to be burned, as it was a contaminated, potentially
      critically dangerous magical artifact.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Lesath's fate got Ginny thinking about a topic she
      subconsciously avoided thinking about – suicide. She had long ago
      realized, from various reports, that suicide was a potentially
      fatal mental break; a sickness rather than a sin. It would be an
      obvious, appalling injustice if, as she was often told, "suicides
      went to Hell". The common justification for suicide being a sin –
      that your life did not belong to you, but to God, or, in a
      secularized context, the people around you, so there's no
      distinction between suicide and murder – grated terribly on Ginny;
      she did not feel that her sense of self-ownership was a sin, but
      rather a virtue. And yet it was equally clear to Ginny that failing
      to prevent suicide was awful, like leaving people with cancer to
      die, and classifying it as a sin certainly accomplished that
      job.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny had a hard time modeling the mind of a suicidal person,
      because her strong aversion to dying made it easy for her to
      dismiss the relevant intrusive thoughts when they occurred. Only
      guilt could change that, and Ginny couldn't think of anything grand
      in scope for her to be guilty about. She supposed an over-focus on
      guilt could be the cause... they certainly said that had been what
      happened to Lesath, though Ginny suspected it was far more
      complicated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But why, after all, did Ginny even have a strong aversion to
      dying? It was hard for her to articulate rationally a reason that
      she didn't desire to hasten her own death, though she certainly
      didn't. She believed in an afterlife; indeed, she believed that the
      afterlife was better than what came before it. She believed that
      committing suicide could not be considered unethical, and that even
      if it could, it could not cause exclusion from Heaven. So why not,
      given these axioms, point her wand at her neck and whisper
      "<em class="calibre8">Diffindo</em>"? If that was too direct for metaphysical
      comfort, why not find a club, go to a nightmarish country, and go
      around bothering heathens until she wound up martyred? Maybe that
      was where the first trolls came from...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny's first thought was that her impulse to remain alive must
      be a less coherent form of the impulse people like Harry, who
      didn't believe in an afterlife, possessed. From their perspective,
      of course, this truly was obvious and rational. From hers, not so
      much; this suggested to Ginny that she still only had belief in
      belief – but hadn't her Patronus disproved that thought? She then
      decided that her survival instinct, which overpowered what
      otherwise seemed to be rational thought, must have come from
      somewhere biological, and it was certainly, on an evolutionary
      level, supposed to be there. So that left three options. Either
      Ginny was one of the few people to become sufficiently religiously
      enlightened to realize that suicide was the correct course of
      action, and she should probably let other people know on her way
      out... or she had made a drastic mistake at some point along her
      reasoning... or...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Or there was some higher purpose to the construct of life than
      simply giving minds a place to reside. Perhaps it was instructional
      – that suggested reincarnation, which Ginny didn't like one bit,
      particularly the part about forgetting past lives, which seemed a
      rather obvious, and terrifying, patch to a rather obvious problem –
      or perhaps it was computational. Perhaps every human being was part
      of a vast computer set up to solve difficult problems, to uncover
      mysteries... Every man, woman, and child a subroutine... That
      wasn't an adequate explanation alone, but it was approaching one.
      Ginny rested content. There was no point in fighting an irrational
      instinct if it caused you to further a moral good. <em class="calibre8">I might
      belong to myself</em>, thought Ginny, <em class="calibre8">but why wreck someone's
      project? If I'm forty and I've gotten an intelligent computer made
      out of specks, finally, and it just disassembles itself, then I'd
      forgive it but I certainly wouldn't be happy. And it's not like I'm
      missing out on the afterlife by staying alive as long as
      possible.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny's Patronus got a bit brighter that day, and thankfully for
      Ginny's mental wellbeing, she never quite internalized that it was
      the direct result of Lesath's tragedy.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
