<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>41. Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence - Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence Chapter 28: Occam's Razor, Part 4, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="41. Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s28" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 28: Occam's Razor, Pt 4</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">On one end of the table, Ginny Weasley. On the other, Draco
      Malfoy. Between them, Tom Morfin Riddle – who was not permitted to
      participate in the discussion. Ginny and Draco were both wearing
      the sort of fine gloves that only Malfoy money could easily buy –
      though magically reinforced for durability.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, I am not under suspicion from the administration?" said
      Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not as far as I could tell," said Ginny. "They completely
      bought that I was just concerned that you might also have been
      attacked. Now, tell me everything you've figured out. Are your
      memories of possession intact?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mostly," said Draco. "There's one specific memory that I know I
      lost, but everything else is intact, as far as I can tell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's the one memory you're missing?" said Ginny. "It might be
      a lead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't remember how the Dark Lord passed the possession test
      while he was in my body," said Draco. "I can remember that there
      was a possession test, and later the Headmistress told me I passed
      it, but I can't remember how I passed it. I can remember there was
      some trick, but not what the trick was. I should start from the
      beginning, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright," said Ginny. "How and when did you get possessed?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Luna – who was disguised as Pansy Parkinson at the time,
      remember," said Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She passed the diary to me, with an enchantment on it to make
      it invisible, so it'd be harder to notice," said Draco. "I don't
      know if it possessed her at any point; given what I know I don't
      see any reason it would have. It must have just been part of the
      Confundus. Or maybe Imperius. I don't know how many mind-control
      magics she was under."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This whole plot is needlessly complex," said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Draco. "Anyway, since I'd already consented to
      indefinite possession months ago, it instantly took full control of
      my body."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's a really stupid thing to consent to," said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True," said Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I regret it," said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I as well," said Draco. "So, I quickly gained awareness of
      some pieces of his plot, though some details are fuzzy. He didn't
      like it when you locked him back in his box. He didn't like it at
      all. But he had a confederate somewhere in Hogwarts - I can't
      remember who – who he'd arranged a plan with just for that fringe
      case. The plan was supposed to go into effect if enough time passed
      without any contact between the Dark Lord and his servant."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't suppose you know who it is who's working with him?"
      said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," said Draco. "Come to think of it, it might be related to
      how he passed the possession test."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Great," said Ginny. "Absolutely great."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anyway, his plan, in case he wound up locked in his box with no
      hope of getting out, was for his servant to hunt him down, seize
      him, and kill you," said Draco. "He eventually wanted you killed
      either way, but he got especially emotional about it after he was
      locked in his box."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, he won't be locked in much longer," said Ginny, and she
      smiled. Draco frowned. "Because he'll be dead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," said Draco. "That. I wanted to talk to you about
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Finish what you were saying, first," said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Lethifold was his plan to kill you, but he needed Luna and
      Hermione out of the way first," said Draco. "He was afraid Luna
      would figure out what was going to happen on the basis of her
      Divination, and protect you. Furthermore, he thought she posed a
      mortal threat to him on the basis of her arcane knowledge."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A particularly well-founded fear of his," said Ginny. "As I'll
      get to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He was fairly certain," continued Draco, "that Hermione was
      also a potential threat to the plan, because many of her
      supernatural powers correlate with those of unicorns – who are
      uniquely able to detect and destroy Lethifolds. So she also had to
      go. And that explains everything that happened yesterday."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Got it," said Ginny. "Now, to discuss our future course of
      action – unless you have anything else to bring up?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've said everything of use I remember," said Draco. "I spent
      most of my time mortified about you, because I knew what was
      supposed to be coming and I couldn't move a muscle to stop it. I
      was shocked when you burst in, but more deeply, relieved."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Glad to hear it," said Ginny. "Now, about destroying him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Remind me why we can't just turn it into the school?" said
      Draco, and Ginny sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, first off, I know that I'm just a twelve-year-old girl,
      but Voldemort convinced me to do some pretty weird things," said
      Ginny. "Call me crazy, but I don't entirely trust anyone else, even
      experienced adults who know who and what they're dealing with, not
      to fall to the same persuasion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Rhetoric can be very powerful," said Draco, "but that seems
      more like cynicism than rationality."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Second off," said Ginny, "you said just now that he has an
      associate in the school? Do you think he's in the school
      administration?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe?" said Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then <em class="calibre8">maybe</em> it's not such a good idea to trust the
      school administration with disposing of him," said Ginny. "Third
      off, what do we have to lose by killing him ourselves? The public
      would have less peace of mind, if they thought he was still out and
      about. But that's only because of asymmetry of information.
      <em class="calibre8">I</em> would have more peace of mind if I saw him die myself,
      and rationally so. I think, given what I've said, the same applies
      to you. True, he has that unknown associate – but the associate
      works for him, not the other way around, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," said Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then absent orders from the boss, the associate should be
      mostly harmless," said Ginny. "And nothing much bad should come
      from the public thinking Voldemort is still out. The attacks will
      slowly fade into the past; people won't be sure why they stopped
      but sooner or later they'll realize that there aren't any more
      coming. It's certainly better that the public thinks Voldemort is
      out while he's not than the other way around. Now, for the
      how."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright," said Draco, playing along. "How?" Ginny revealed a
      scroll.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Luna," said Ginny. "She gave me this scroll and said that it
      explained what Tim was and how to destroy him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...I need to talk to Luna more too," said Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I brushed her off at the time because, well, you know,"
      explained Ginny, "but now I've thoroughly read it and it sounds
      legitimate enough. Let's review the list of horcrux destruction
      methods – one, invocation of a demon through ritual sacrifice of a
      virgin in a pentagram made of Sneakoscopes – immoral, and also it
      says that the demon is potentially more dangerous than the horcrux
      you're trying to destroy. Two, make the horcrux feel remorse,
      specifically for the murder required to create it. Yeah, I'm not
      going to play therapist for Voldemort; that is literally the worst
      thing we could do with him at this point. Two-A, use Amortentia to
      force it to experience that same remorse. Ignoring the
      complications of feeding a potion to an inanimate object - I guess
      we'd let it possess one of us, first? Sounds risky – it's
      incredibly difficult to get our hands on Amortentia."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True," said Draco. "Father commented once that with all the
      regulations imposed on it, even he would have a hard time coming by
      any."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Woah," said Ginny, "probably not going to happen. But I guess
      I'll put that one down as a maybe, since it doesn't come with any
      kind of inherent risk, if we manage to get it set up. Third,
      Fiendfyre. I don't know how that works? Can you make that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Some of Father's old friends could," said Draco, "and some of
      them are even still alive, but I suspect they would ask us some
      very pointed questions about why we needed any, and I'm not sure
      how they would respond to an honest answer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fourth, Dementor's Kiss," said Ginny. "We're not going to sneak
      into the Department of Mysteries, especially not with Voldemort
      sneaking in with us. We're children and that's ridiculous. Fifth,
      contact with another hostile horcrux. Sounds promising, but these
      aren't common, are they?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't believe so," said Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It only has about a fifty percent chance of working anyway,"
      said Ginny. "Sixth, certain lost sacrificial rituals. Well, there's
      that word, 'lost'. Seventh, basilisk venom." Ginny and Draco
      started to laugh, simultaneously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, according to legend, Slytherin's Monster is helpful
      towards all Parselmouths who reach it," said Draco. "I'm sure it
      could be persuaded to bite a troublesome book." Ginny started
      laughing a bit too hard, which immediately concerned Draco. "I was
      joking." Ginny smiled wider, and Draco frowned more intensely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll put it down to consider," said Ginny.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is the stupidest plot I have ever been involved with,"
      said Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stupidest, or simplest?" said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't believe we're looking for the entrance to the Chamber
      of Secrets, as though it were trivial," said Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Open,</em>" said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Sspeak the correct wordss,</em>" said the bathroom
      sink.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Open pleasse,</em>" said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Sspeak the correct wordss</em>," said the bathroom
      sink.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Sshow me your ssecretss</em>," said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Sspeak the correct wordss</em>," said the bathroom
      sink.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Correct wordss,</em>" said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Sspeak the correct wordss</em>," said the bathroom
      sink.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Sspeak the correct wordss</em>," said Ginny, and the
      bathroom sink blossomed into an enormous entrance to a tunnel,
      which occupied the entire girls' lavatory. Puzzles don't make very
      good passwords, and vice versa.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't believe we're entering the Chamber of Secrets, as
      though it were trivial," said Draco, and Ginny pulled him down with
      her. The entire environ was much more dungeon-ish than even Harry's
      revised Slytherin dorms; everything was damp and dark, illuminated
      only by sparse torchlight. Soon, a hissing voice rang out from an
      invisible point suspended in the darkness, and Ginny knew there was
      only one thing it could be: a Sapespeck point.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">It lookss like you're losst! Thiss iss not the main
      entrancce to the Chamber. But never fear. I've located many of the
      ssecondary entranccess and placced helpful sspeckss to sset you in
      the right direction. Follow the sspeckss that say 'thiss way' over
      and over, and occasionally listen up for further insstructionss. By
      doing thiss you will find the Chamber. Clap to make any of my
      non-repeating sspecks repeat.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, some hissing is going to lead us to the Chamber," said
      Ginny. "Just follow me." There were quite a few turns to make,
      particularly in something called the Maze of the Poles, and
      sometimes wholly unnecessary danger, which the specks helpfully
      detoured around (why in God's name had Salazar Slytherin felt the
      need to include a passage full of deadly, constantly-hammering
      crushers?). Finally Ginny and Draco arrived at a gondola suspended
      from a chain made of stone snakes; the chain led across the ceiling
      of a corridor blocked by about ten diagonal spikes that looked
      rather like teeth of an enormous, vicious creature.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Thiss gondola iss the intended transsport into the
      Chamber,</em>"said another speck. "<em class="calibre8">Get in it.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, excuse me?" said Ginny. A pause, and then she clapped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Thiss gondola iss the intended transsport into the Chamber.
      Get in it.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, okay, Draco," said Ginny. "We need to get in the
      gondola."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright," said Draco. "It's just as sane as anything else we've
      been doing." A few seconds after Ginny had gotten in, it began to
      move; Draco only had one leg in and had to scramble in upon threat
      of being torn apart. Soon, the gondola had floated down the
      corridor (the spears parted just enough to let it in), and then
      sideways down another, into a cramped room, apparently made of
      square boxes with circular grates on them. Then, it stopped, and a
      much louder speck called out to Ginny:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Primary heir! Identify yoursself in human wordss, and
      confirm in ssnake wordss, using no more or lesss than the preccisse
      phrasse 'thiss iss valid identification with which I do not intend
      any decceit'."</em> Ginny carefully considered this and answered as
      she believed she was intended.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginny Weasley," said Ginny. "<em class="calibre8">Thiss iss valid identification
      with which I do not intend any decceit.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">It iss detected that you have brought a guesst. Can the
      guesst usse ssnake wordss? Ansswer 'yess' or 'no' only.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">No</em>," said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">To the best of your knowledge, are either you or your
      guesst an aliass, branch, or exxtenssion of any of the following
      individualss:</em>" Then, from the boxes around the gondola,
      recordings began to play, of wizards identifying themselves in
      their own voices:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Madam Mim!" shouted one, with a distinct cackle in her
      voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Herpo," said one with a deep, inherently terrifying voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Roko," said a third in a distinct Spanish accent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tom Morfin Riddle," said the fourth box, which sounded smooth
      and unassuming.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres," said the fifth and final box,
      in a voice everyone obviously knew, and Ginny and Draco shared a
      meaningful look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Ansswer 'yess' or 'no' only.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">No</em>," said Ginny, and the gondola lurched sideways a
      few more feet until a vast room, nearly as large as the Quidditch
      stadium, came into view. Its walls were entirely adorned with
      Latin; not a single spot was overlooked and left blank, except for
      the enormous open pipes which went to who-knew-where. At the far
      end of the room was what looked like an enormous stone nutcracker
      modeled off of Salazar Slytherin; from that same general direction
      came a booming voice, the loudest Parselmouth Ginny had ever heard.
      She knew immediately, before even comprehending its words, that it
      was Slytherin's Monster.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Hello, young apprenticce,</em>" said the Monster.
      "<em class="calibre8">Welcome back to the Chamber. Your arrival iss unexxpected; how
      have your planss changed?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">I have been posssesssed every time I was in the
      Chamber,</em>" said Ginny, "<em class="calibre8">by a horcruxx. Then my memoriess
      were removed by magic. Thiss iss the first time I have come here of
      my own accord."</em> Angry nonverbal hissing from the Monster's
      direction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">The ssecurity of the Chamber has been compromissed,</em>"
      said the Monster. <em class="calibre8">"Thiss iss a dissasster. What hass brought
      you here? I am famed Monsster, inccidentally. You are lisstening to
      Bassilissk.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">I have come to dissposse of horcruxx, and read that
      Bassilissk is capable of ssuch,</em>" said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">That iss technically within my capabilitiess, though the
      need hass never come up before now,</em>" said the Monster. "<em class="calibre8">I
      wissh to interrogate it firsst; do you find thiss
      accceptable?</em>" Ginny frowned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"I sspeccifically came to you because I did not desire
      interrogation,</em>" said Ginny. "<em class="calibre8">My conccern iss that it could
      manipulate you during the procccesss.</em>" Then, something that
      could only be described as a deep snake laugh from the Monster.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">'Interrogation' is euphemissm for powerful mind magic built
      into the Chamber,"</em> said the Monster. "<em class="calibre8">No true
      communication iss involved, and therefore there iss no chance for
      manipulation. Iss like mind reading. When we come to a mutual
      agreement on what preccissely iss to be done, I may come out to
      carry it out; I am neither permitted to nor capable of manipulating
      you into allowing me to do thingss you do not want done. Tosss the
      horcruxx as far as you can and avert your eyess until I ssay it iss
      clear.</em>" Ginny thought it over, and couldn't think of any
      loopholes – even when she applied the extra skepticism that came
      from considering how well that line of thought had gone last
      time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Yess, you may interrogate him in the manner you desscribed.
      It iss done,"</em> said Ginny, and she hurled the book as far as
      she could. "Draco, look away, the Basilisk is coming."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" said Draco, horrified, and the two of them turned
      exactly around in their gondola; Ginny held Draco in position in
      case he did something foolish like assuming it was over before it
      was. They simply listened as the statue creaked open, and then
      there was loud slithering, and the slithering got louder and then
      faded away, and then the statue creaked closed, and then back open,
      and then the slithering resumed, and then it stopped suddenly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Do not look,</em>" said the Monster. <em class="calibre8">"I am sstill here.
      The man in the horcruxx is terrible, worse than you or I guesssed.
      I will kill him now, and then return to hiding.</em>" Something
      chomped down, and there was an awful burst of magic – which
      everyone seemed to get desensitized to sooner or later – and a
      final fading series of slithers and creaking. "<em class="calibre8">I am gone. It
      iss ssafe to look now. Do you dessire to hear the ressultss of my
      interrogation, for referencce?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Ssure,</em>" said Ginny. She knew that with all of the mind
      magic going around, she wouldn't really be able to trust later that
      the problems were over, that the Dark Lord was dead. But in that
      moment, she didn't care; she was just relieved.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Horcruxx wass of man he called 'infamouss masster'</em>,"
      said the Monster. "<em class="calibre8">He made it ssound like he wass an unrelated
      persson through clever usse of implication. Truly did ressent main
      sself, but it wass sstill hiss sself. 'Infamouss masster' found the
      Chamber in hiss youth and falssely believed he had gained all of
      itss ssecretss. Therefore, he went againsst itss intent by
      attempting to kill me, to make the Chamber ussselesss to future
      heirss. Thiss wass foolissh; I am guarded againsst ssuch, but
      project illussion of death. Thiss action got 'infamouss masster'
      blacklissted from the Chamber."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Later in life,</em>" continued the Monster, "<em class="calibre8">'infamouss
      master' began to producce horcruxxess, and one of</em> <em class="calibre8">them
      became aware of propheccy indicating Chamber remained intact. Main
      sself was unaware of this propheccy, but horcruxx did not tell main
      sself due to their poor relationsship. Propheccy was
      sself-referential, referred to 'prophessied hero'. 'The prophessied
      hero will make the most important deccissions in the Chamber.'
      Horcruxx deccided thiss meant that the ssubject of the propheccy
      was alsso the hero of ssome other propheccy. Attempted to exxploit
      thiss upon disscovering your religiouss ssignificance to regain
      acccesss to the Chamber through trickery."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Wass part of elaborate plan to resstore himsself to life
      with reputation ass hero,</em>" explained the Monster. <em class="calibre8">"After
      your death, which you thwarted, your guesst wass to be permanently
      posssesssed, hiss original mind desstroyed, and many who could
      sstand againsst him desstroyed ass well, and one in particular –
      your famouss crussh who valuess knowledge – framed and killed
      ssimultaneoussly. Public would be told guesst had killed crussh
      posssesssed by infamouss masster, when in actuality infamouss
      masster had posssesssed guesst to kill crussh. Eventually, and from
      my persspective most damningly, Chamber would be permanently
      ssealed off by governorss, and invesstigated by large teamss with
      intent to desstroy."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"How awful,"</em> said Ginny. "<em class="calibre8">Are there any loosse
      endss of hiss plotss we sshould know of?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"He hass followerss, but he believess they would either
      sswiftly fall or quietly abandon him in hiss dissappearancce,"</em>
      said the Monster. "<em class="calibre8">Furthermore, he could not acccesss Chamber
      without your body, sso in preparation of your death, three future
      attackss were prearranged, sso they would not require further
      meeting to initiate.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Canccel them,</em>" said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">I am ssorry, but I cannot,</em>" said the Monster. "<em class="calibre8">Ass
      with all other attackss I have made, I have been convincced that
      they sserve my primary purposse, which iss to undermine the decline
      of magic both by passsing on knowledge and by acting ass weapon. Do
      not conccern yoursself; I do not anticcipate that any of the
      upcoming three attackss will be sseriouss, given the culture of
      glasss around the sschool.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">I find this disssatissfactory</em>," said Ginny. "<em class="calibre8">You
      have already killed at leasst four people I know of.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">I am again ssorry,</em>" said the Monster. "<em class="calibre8">It sserved
      my primary purposse</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">I don't care about your primary purposse!</em>" said
      Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Yess, but you care about yourss,</em>" said the Monster. A
      pause. <em class="calibre8">"Do you wissh for my normal sservicess? I take it that
      you do not wish to launch any sort of violent attack, but do you
      wissh for forgotten lore? That iss my mosst tessted sservice, with
      perhapss the mosst utility. I undersstand if you would rather
      resst."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Your anticcipation that I wissh to resst iss correct</em>,"
      said Ginny. "<em class="calibre8">Ssend uss back, and perhapss I will return for
      lore on ssome more peacceful occasion.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Heirs musst attend the Chamber of Ssecretss in intervalss
      of one hour,</em>" said the Monster. <em class="calibre8">"If you resst, you must
      resst here until the end of that time</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," muttered Ginny. "Okay, Draco, I think we're done
      here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What did it tell you?" asked Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll tell you most of it later," said Ginny. "For now I'm just
      irritated, because we're stuck in here for the better part of an
      hour because their machinery's dumb."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ugh," said Draco. "How annoying."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Guess we'll just have to sit here," said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Draco. "We could." He softly bit his lip and smiled.
      "We could spend half an hour in a gondola in the dark in a part of
      Hogwarts nobody knows having absolutely no fun at all. Or..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait a minute," said Ginny. "Are you... implying..." Draco
      nodded, and Ginny exploded with all of the positive emotions she
      hadn't really gotten in the past few months. This was in fact not
      one of the purposes Salazar Slytherin had considered for his
      Chamber, and he had considered many.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Luna!" shouted Ginny, suddenly and with only joy, no thought.
      Two simultaneous gasps, and everything froze.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um," said Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh my God, oh my God, oh my God!" said Ginny. "I'm – so -" She
      immediately slid Draco's shoe back on, and retied it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, it's okay," said Draco. "I understand completely." He
      didn't even sound upset.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't even sound upset," said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To be honest, I'm pretty sure some of my feelings for you are
      residual implanted thoughts from the Dark Lord trying to manipulate
      me, anyway," said Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's a rather cruel thing to say," said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I didn't mean it like-" started Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We should see other people," said Ginny and Draco all at once.
      Long pauses were apparently the main conversational topic
      today.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, is there anything interesting to talk about?" said Ginny.
      "To fill up the dead – sound."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um... politics," said Draco. "I love politics. Sometimes I
      really think about systems of government, and I think about how
      much of a mistake humanity made by abandoning the feudal system."
      Draco continued to drone on and on, and Ginny began to get it in
      her head that she had dodged a bullet, though she didn't know where
      her lunatic outburst had originated from. A few minutes later, the
      gondola began to move again, and exited the Chamber of Secrets.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
