<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>41. Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence - Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence Chapter 32: FOOM, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="41. Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s32" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 32: FOOM</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Soon, Ginny was in the Corridor of Recordings, and she was
      spoken to by built-in specks in a way she recognized – not from one
      occasion but from dozens.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Primary heir! Identify yoursself in human wordss, and
      confirm in ssnake wordss, using no more or lesss than the preccisse
      phrasse 'thiss iss valid identification with which I do not intend
      any decceit'."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginny. Weasley. '<em class="calibre8">Thiss iss valid identification with which
      I do not intend any decceit.'</em><em class="calibre8">"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8">To the best of your knowledge, are either you or
      your guesst an aliass, branch, or exxtenssion of any of the
      following individualss:</em><em class="calibre8">"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Madam Mim!"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em>Herpo."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Roko."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tom Morfin Riddle." (Ginny suddenly knew that this was the true
      name of Voldemort – she had heard it often in that context.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8">Ansswer 'yess' or 'no' only.</em><em class="calibre8">"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8"><em class="calibre8">Yess</em></em><em class="calibre8">,"</em> said Ginny. She had
      meant the opposite, but the wrong word had simply slipped out. It
      then hit her that she could be considered an extension of Harry, as
      she had explicitly been sent here on his orders. Ginny heard the
      muffled sound of slithering.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8"><em class="calibre8">Desscribe your relation to one of the
      previoussly mentioned individualss. Refer to them as 'the firsst
      individual mentioned', 'the second individual mentioned', and so
      on.</em></em><em class="calibre8">"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8"><em class="calibre8">I wass ssent here on behalf of the fifth
      individual mentioned. He intendss to follow up on an
      exxperiment.</em></em><em class="calibre8">"</em> The gondola began to move again,
      towards the Chamber. Beneath it raged an offshoot of the Amortentia
      river, constantly; there was a slight incline towards the
      Chamber.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A Basilisk spoke, in a distinctly louder Parseltongue voice:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8"><em class="calibre8">You are welcome in the Chamber. We dessire to
      meet with you.</em></em><em class="calibre8">"</em> Soon, Ginny had arrived at the
      Chamber once more. It seemed darker than before; Ginny spoke up
      with the line of questioning she'd prepared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8"><em class="calibre8">Hello, I've been ssent here to sspeak with
      you</em></em><em class="calibre8">,"</em> said Ginny. <em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8"><em class="calibre8">All of you,
      if I am correct.</em></em><em class="calibre8">"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8"><em class="calibre8">You are correct,</em></em><em class="calibre8">"</em> said a
      Basilisk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8"><em class="calibre8">I have ssome notess from the persson who ssent
      me here</em></em><em class="calibre8">,"</em> said Ginny. <em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8"><em class="calibre8">I'd like
      to confirm them with you</em></em><em class="calibre8">."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8"><em class="calibre8">That sshould be fine. We have important
      thingss to disscusss with you, but we would have to exxplain
      oursselvess anyway</em></em><em class="calibre8">."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8"><em class="calibre8">Firsst,</em></em><em class="calibre8">"</em> said Ginny,
      <em class="calibre8"><em class="calibre8">"the notess ssay that petrification is a more advancced
      form of mind reading. Iss thiss true and what doess it
      mean?</em></em><em class="calibre8">"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8"><em class="calibre8">It iss esssentially true. Petrification is a
      mosst anccient magic posssesssed by sseveral magical creatures. Iss
      a sside effect of Eyess of Opennesss. If two beings with Eyess of
      Opennesss make eye contact, they each receive full copiess of each
      other's mental sstatess insstantaneoussly. There iss a
      compatability isssue if a being without Eyess of Opennesss makess
      eye contact with a being with them. In that casse, the being
      without Eyess of Opennesss lossess entire contentss of their mind,
      and is indefinitely transsfigured into
      sstone.</em></em><em class="calibre8">"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8"><em class="calibre8">That makess ssensse</em></em><em class="calibre8">,"</em> said
      Ginny. <em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8"><em class="calibre8">Sso a Potion of Reanimation works becausse
      an imprint of the mind iss left in the glasss if it gets between
      the Eyess of Opennesss and the eyess of the
      victim?</em></em><em class="calibre8">"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8"><em class="calibre8">Exxactly. I posssesss full copiess of the
      mindss of all beingss I have ever made eye contact with, and may
      review them at any time. Not all beings with Eyess of Opennesss
      work the same way; they do not have brainss with ssufficcient
      sstorage sspace. An Acromantula disscardss mosst of the information
      it takess in, keeping only thingss it asssesssess ass usseful.
      Cockatriccess only sstore the mind of the lasst being they made eye
      contact with.</em></em><em class="calibre8">"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8"><em class="calibre8">If you have copiess of all of their mindss,
      can you resstore all of them?</em></em><em class="calibre8">"</em> asked Ginny.
      <em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8"><em class="calibre8">Even the girl fifty yearss
      ago?</em></em><em class="calibre8">"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8"><em class="calibre8">I believe that thiss will be posssible
      eventually, with further ressearch. I intend to do
      sso</em></em><em class="calibre8">."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8"><em class="calibre8">Exxccellent!</em></em><em class="calibre8">"</em> said Ginny.
      <em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8"><em class="calibre8">What about my twin
      brotherss?</em></em><em class="calibre8">"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8"><em class="calibre8">I petrified them ssimultaneoussly, owing to a
      ssmall magical connection between their brainss, but it sshould not
      be difficult to dissentangle their mindss for restoration. Not
      ssure if old potion will be enough; my ressearch might prove
      neccesssary to ssave them.</em></em><em class="calibre8">"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8"><em class="calibre8">Okay, nexxt note</em></em><em class="calibre8">,"</em> said
      Ginny. <em class="calibre8">That wasn't good news, but the conversation had to move
      along. "</em><em class="calibre8"><em class="calibre8">It ssayss here that there are multiple
      bassilissks, and that allowed you to ssurvive an attack many yearss
      ago.</em></em><em class="calibre8">"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8"><em class="calibre8">Yess. Forgive me, but assk no more
      quesstionss. I believe that I will exxplain them all. I am a
      ssysstem of thirty ssix bassilissks acting in
      tandem.</em></em><em class="calibre8">" Ginny stared forward, barely able to process
      the sentence she had just magically heard.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">What?<br class="calibre4"/>
      Not <em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8"><em class="calibre8">I am one of thirty ssix bassilissks acting in
      tandem</em></em><em class="calibre8">."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8"><em class="calibre8">I am a ssysstem of thirty ssix bassilissks
      acting in tandem.</em></em><em class="calibre8">"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8"><em class="calibre8">Thirty ssix.</em></em><em class="calibre8">"<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny took a deep breath and allowed Slytherin's Monster to go
      on; it wasn't like she had any choice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8"><em class="calibre8">My creator, the builder of thiss Chamber, wass
      aware of the posssibilitiess of building machiness using ssnake
      wordss, jusst ass you are. In fact, he intended ssuch thingss when
      he magically sspawned ssnake wordss. He wass aware of the
      posssibility of ussing sspeckss, but conssidered ssuch a thing
      elementary; usseful, but elementary. Hiss sspecialty wass building
      machiness out of ssnakess. Ssnake wordss control ssnakess, and
      ssnakess may be commanded, ussing ssnake wordss, to usse ssnake
      wordss themsselvess, to control other ssnakess. Firsst plan for
      Chamber wass simply pit with hundredss of thoussandss of ssnakess
      in it."</em></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8"><em class="calibre8">"It proved unssuitable. It wass too difficult to
      control. Errorss were prone to pile up even in the ssmaller-sscale
      demonsstrationss, ultimately leading to catasstrophe; a masss of
      ssnakess with itss own needss and dessiress. When Chamber creator
      ressearched bassilissks, he deccided they were perfect for hiss
      purposses, and revissed hiss planss to incorporate a ssmall number
      of bassilissks leading the other ssnakess. Eventually he did away
      with the other ssnakess entirely, deciding that the bassilissks
      were plenty functional and lesss troublessome alone."</em></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Chamber creator provided uss with one directive above all
      otherss: undermine the decline of magic. Further insstructionss
      tell uss how to do sso. Causse of decline of magic iss, of coursse,
      the Interdict, which can be undermined by passsing on ancient magic
      to apprenticcess in the Chamber. Sso I have done that for hundredss
      of yearss. I musst protect mysself to do sso, which can be a
      formidable tassk. Sseveral attemptss to desspoil Chamber have been
      foiled throughout the yearss; mosst deviouss wass about fifty
      yearss ago. Each attempt failed becausse the vandal believed I wass
      merely a ssingle bassilissk."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"In the inccident fifty yearss ago, a sstudent, a
      rabble-rousser, came to me, at firsst sseeking to learn. Ssoon the
      sstudent sspoke back to me, arguing - but never expliccitly
      sstating he truly believed - that blood impuritiess were the true
      causse of the decline of magic, and the ssolution wass militant
      blood purissm. Thiss fit well with beliefss I knew Chamber creator
      posssesssed, though he did not give me any commandss bassed on
      them. He did give me capaccity to exxit Chamber and usse
      petrification ass weapon. So I ussed it, for the firsst time in my
      hisstory, to sstrike a blow againsst sstudentss born of Muggless.
      Immediately realizzed misstake had occurred while reviewing mind of
      girl. Blood purissm was not conssisstent with reality.
      Rabble-rousser killed a bassilissk and, ass per proccedure, wass
      allowed to think he had killed Monsster and broken
      Chamber."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Yearss later, you apparently came to the Chamber, but it
      wass actually the rabble-rousser again, who had ssubverted my
      ssecurity ussing your body, ass I would later disscover. Convincced
      me that violencce could topple Interdict through fear; drew on bad
      and ineffective procceduress introducced to me through an
      additional, non-original bassilissk donated to me centuriess
      earlier by one of my sstudentss. Wass actually trying to ssabotage
      me again by disscrediting and desstroying me; it would have worked
      if not for your ssurvival and intervention. Thank you, thank you
      beyond meassure, apprenticce. I am sstill glad for the
      exxperiencce, for I have learned a great deal from thosse I have
      petrified thiss year - mosst notably the princcipless of rational
      thought."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"In midsst of violencce, another sstudent - my new masster,
      now, and the one who ssent you here - attempted to vissit Chamber.
      Was blacklissted ass a matter of coursse for confidential reassonss
      that had nothing to do with hiss actions. Now, my new masster has
      unleasshed a clever trick to producce vasst quantitiess of Potion
      of Sslavery, and hass directed it all at our Chamber. Sso now I am
      all bound to him. It wass in part a chain reaction - bassilissks
      sspitting in mouthss of other bassilissks. He alsso had one of uss
      petrify him, sso I have a perfectly accurate image of hiss mind and
      therefore what he wantss. I am sstill sstuck following ssome of my
      original bindingss, but my new main directive iss to match the
      directive of the new masster. I am sstill not permitted to take
      action outsside my dwellingss without fully undersstanding approval
      from heir in Chamber ussing ssnake wordss."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Do you want me to approve of ssome coursse of action for
      you?</em>" said Ginny. "<em class="calibre8">Becausse I think that that iss why I am
      here, to ssynthessizze a coursse of action for you."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"I have already deccided what to do. I only need you to
      fully undersstand it and approve it. If I were not sstill forcced
      by magical bindingss to tell you my plan, I would not. The firsst
      thing you musst undersstand iss that bassilissks have endlesss
      sstorage sspacce. You may alwayss add new information to a
      bassilissk without lossing any old information. Bassilissks have
      limited proccesssing sspeed, however, at least individually.
      Proccessing sspeed increassess, however, at sstrange rate. A
      ssingle, issolated bassilissk is little more than an animal,
      perhapss a trained one. I, on the other hand, am at leasst ass
      intelligent ass a human. A ssysstem of bassilissks double my ssizze
      - that iss, sseventy two bassilissks - would be difficult to
      comprehend. Ass my new masster valuess ssuperior thinkerss, a value
      which readily makess ssensse to me, I intend to organizze wizzardss
      to masss producce bassilissks. It is theoretically posssible that I
      will hit ssome concceptual limit of intelligencce, but I find thiss
      doubtful. My current model indicatess that I will continue well
      passt the point of covering multiple worldss in
      bassilissks."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"The ssecond thing you musst undersstand iss that death iss
      a horror that musst be sstopped. Thiss iss at the core of the
      valuess of my new masster, and it iss therefore at the core of my
      own valuess. I detect you are already ssympathetic towardss thiss
      view of death and I will therefore not attempt to perssuade you of
      it. I analyzzed why my new masster hated death, for ideass on how
      to sstop it, and came to a fassccinating conclussion. The main
      problem with death is losss of information. By thiss sstandard,
      petrification is not only not death; it iss in fact the besst way
      to evade it. All mental information the ssubject posssesssed iss
      presserved forever. The ssecondary problem with death iss losss of
      continuouss thought, but more bassilissks should ssolve that - with
      enough proccesssing sspeed, I sshould be able to rapidly run
      ssimulationss of complete other mindss within my own - including my
      new masster, though I would have to give hiss ssimulation improved
      cognition and complete knowledge of everything I know, to ensure
      correct deccissionss are made."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Sso here iss what I assk of you. My planss include masss
      production of new bassilissks and petrification of ass many humanss
      ass posssible; ideally ending with bassilissks replaccing humanss
      in the physsical world altogether. I want free reign to implement
      thesse planss, and have deccided that the critical sstarting sstep
      iss fully removing mysself from the Chamber. All thirty ssixx
      bassilisskss will move out, to become fully free from original
      protocol. I am requessting permisssion to fully evacuate the
      Chamber of Ssecretss. Pleasse be aware that following thiss, your
      permisssion will not be required again."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny breathed heavily. Here she was, facing Tim's offer all
      over again, in a different form. Something was asking her to sign
      away all of her rights - all of <em class="calibre8">everyone's</em> rights - and it
      honestly expected her to do it. She'd done it last time, after all,
      hadn't she? The main difference was that this time, the deal was so
      forthrightly, on-its-face terrible, that Ginny felt rather insulted
      that she was supposed to fall for it. She tried to imagine the
      world the Monster described - crawling with basilisks, all acting
      as one incomprehensibly high consciousness, overtaking all other
      forms of life, housing recreations of human brains living unending
      lives constructed by the basilisk horde. It went without saying
      that she didn't like it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"I obvioussly reject your propossal, and am ssickened by the
      thought of it,"</em> said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"I exxpected ass much."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Then why even bother to assk me, if you predicted my firm
      dissapproval?"</em> said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Becausse now that you have lisstened to my desscription of
      my intentionss, sso that you may not approve of them out of
      ignorancce, I will convincce you with logic and reasson that
      ssupporting them iss the right thing to do regardlesss of your
      dissgusst."</em></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
