<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>39. Harry Potter and the Order of Chaos - Harry Potter and the Order of Chaos Chapter 1: Quietude, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="39. Harry Potter and the Order of Chaos"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1: Quietude</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Author's note: Although labelled 'Harry Potter' this fanfiction
      is actually a recursive fanfiction for Harry Potter and the Methods
      of Rationality by Less Wrong. To really enjoy this fic, you should
      probably first read that one. In fact, you should read that one
      anyway. It's awesome. But if you utterly refuse to, the short story
      is that Harry was raised by a scientist and now everything is
      different.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For those familiar with Methods of Rationality, this is a
      future!(rationalist!Harry) [Q: are character tags associative?] set
      in Harry's fifth year at Hogwarts. As such, it may become an AU if,
      at any point, canon updates disagree drastically with my wild
      guesses at what might happen to Harry in the future. Or if I come
      up with any cool ideas. Or if I get bored and disintegrate into
      shipping.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You have been warned.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">On the upper levels of the Ministry of Magic, it was often
      difficult to find anywhere that could honestly be called quiet.
      Near constantly, people bustled in and out, delivering messages too
      important to be entrusted to the crowd of aeroplanes which darted
      overhead, skewering the unwary or unusually tall in their race to
      the top members of the government of Wizarding Britain. In the
      crowded corridors, it was unusual to pass a dozen metres without
      having to skirt around some vital murmured conversation sparked by
      a chance encounter. All around, there was an aura of communication,
      a low muttering whisper which to outsiders sometimes seemed just as
      likely to contain idle office gossip as the vital inner workings of
      a nation – particularly, someone had once observed, if those
      outsiders were regular readers of the Daily Prophet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The one exception to the ever present discussions was also the
      subject of more than a few of them; a bastion of calm enclosed on
      all sides by thick, and some said curse proof, walls, and utterly
      inaccessible, for all but the most highly ranked, without a prior
      appointment: the Minister's Office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was there, within that precious bubble of silence, that Fudge
      now sat, regarding with some curiosity the woman opposite him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Although he had been acquainted with her for many years, he
      still felt he knew little about her. That state of affairs was not
      unusual in such a busy office, but what little he did know had only
      served to heighten his curiosity. She was loyal, both to the
      Ministry itself and to Fudge personally and, unlike far too many of
      his staff, she seemed somewhat incorruptible. If everything he had
      observed of her was to be believed, she was that rarest of things –
      a politician truly devoted to the good of the nation and the
      upholding of its rightful government, and willing to do close to
      anything in the service of that cause.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dolores," he began. "Tell me – did you ever consider another
      career?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She smiled sweetly, a sight which would strike terror into the
      heart of any Junior Undersecretary, and had once been, rumour had
      it, the last sight ever seen by one particularly rude copy boy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why, I don't believe so," she said. "I began working for the
      Ministry straight out of Hogwarts. I never had reason to consider
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about teaching?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Umbridge's look of confusion disappeared as she realised what
      this was about. Although she did not always look it, Dolores had
      proven herself to be exceedingly intelligent on more than one
      occasion in the past – as top-level employees almost invariably
      were, if one was prepared to look hard enough. It was this
      intelligence, her loyalty, and above all her reputation for utter
      ruthlessness, which made her perfect for the task at hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hogwarts is a great tradition of this country," she said
      carefully. "If it were offered, I would relish the opportunity to
      pass on my experience to the next generation of wizard-kind."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But unfortunately," Fudge continued. "Hogwarts has been
      somewhat unlucky as of late."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dolores nodded. "The unfortunate death of Mr Diggory has
      generated a certain amount of negative attention."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course, it would be a terrible loss if Hogwarts were to
      fail." Fudge smiled. "The Ministry cannot be seen to be complacent
      about such a national treasure."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We must protect our country's heritage."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Provide a watchful eye."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Show our concern."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ensure accountability."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Make sure everything is in order."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They had understood each other perfectly so far. But there was
      one question which could not go unanswered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Precisely," Fudge nodded. "For without order, there is
      chaos."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Umbridge's face was suddenly blank. She had heard the rumours,
      then – by now, who hadn't? But was she involved? He suspected that,
      if she knew more, she would have prepared a better reaction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After all, she was in politics.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Order is infinitely preferable," she said quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I agree." Fudge got to his feet, walking her to the door.
      "Thank you for your time, Dolores."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, Minister."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He opened the door onto the thrum of the outer office, which
      quietened not inconsiderably at the sight of one of its most feared
      overseers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Yes, Fudge thought to himself as Dolores walked away. Umbridge
      was the right person for the job.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If anyone could do it, she could.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Platform Nine and Three Quarters was a big place – larger than
      many of Hogwarts students realised. Certainly, it had surprised
      Evan that, while searching for a bathroom, he had somehow managed
      to stray away from the crowds, the tearful parents and the
      enthusiastic greetings of friends reunited after a long summer, and
      that he now found himself frightened and alone in the smoke.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It had been more frightening, although perhaps less surprising,
      to discover that he was not, in fact, alone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why, look what we have here?" called a horribly familiar voice.
      "Gryffidiot can't find his way back to the train."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A high pitched laugh. He had brought his girlfriend, then. Those
      were the worst times, when there was someone to cheer him on. At
      first, Evan had thought he might hold back in front of her, but she
      wasn't at all squeamish. She seemed to enjoy it even more than he
      did.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Evan's hand went to his pocket, but his wand was still in his
      backpack with his other belongings. He had thought he would be safe
      on the platform. Clearly, he had gotten into bad habits over the
      summer, and now he was going to have to pay the price.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He spun around to face his tormentors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They were not looking at him, but had, in turn, turned to face
      an approaching figure, shrouded in the September mist.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They had been followed. Perhaps he was not the only one who had
      lost his edge over the summer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know," said a voice instantly familiar to all three. "This
      really isn't behaviour befitting of the name of Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two bullies took a step back, almost involuntarily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What would the new first years think if they saw something like
      this? They might get completely the wrong idea."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The newcomer took a step forward, steam curling away to reveal a
      tall girl with slightly wild brown hair and a friendly smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You see, I'm a prefect now," she continued, gesturing to the
      shiny blue badge she had already pinned to her cardigan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As one, the trio's eyes drifted a couple of centimetres to the
      left, towards a small, circular pin bearing the stylised insignia
      of a sun.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I really can't let this kind of thing just <em class="calibre8">happen</em>,"
      she continued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The couple drew closer together, holding tight onto each
      other.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The girl tipped her head to the side, as if considering a
      difficult problem. "But then, I suppose it is the first day of
      school. You were probably all just overexcited, weren't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All three nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So I think it would be best if you just headed back to the
      train now, don't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The trio turned to leave.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, and Evan?" his rescuer called. "If there's any more trouble
      in future, you can always come and talk to me. I'm sure I could
      help."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Evan paused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, General Granger." It was best to be polite.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She smiled. "You can call me Hermione."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He nodded, hurrying after his tormentors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He would never go to her. He had heard the rumours. Even after
      everything they had done to him, they didn't deserve
      <em class="calibre8">that</em>.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione watched the three third-years hurrying away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You'd better keep an eye on those two, Malfoy," she called.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll deal with it my way, Granger." Rolling his eyes, Draco
      stepped away from the wall and headed towards her. "So, you made
      Prefect?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Obviously. And you did too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He, too, was wearing his badge, the Slytherin emerald
      contrasting sharply with the flame he wore next to it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop the evasion and get to the point," Draco told her. "You
      waited until Harry was saying goodbye to his parents and you made
      sure I saw you leaving. Whatever you want to say, we don't have
      long before he comes looking for us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Like you don't already know." Hermione raised an eyebrow. "Has
      he told you anything?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course not, or I would have found a way to let you know."
      Draco had been staying with Harry's family over the summer, but his
      attempts to learn more had all failed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No clues?" Hermione didn't look hopeful.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco paused. "He isn't a Prefect."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That got a reaction, albeit one that few would notice. A slight
      raising of the eyebrows, a tightening of the jaw – Hermione had
      been practising schooling her expression for several years, but
      there were always clues, if you knew the person well enough.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But then, Draco hardly needed her expression to reveal the
      surprise she must be feeling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I presume you've heard the official rumours?" Draco asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," Hermione acknowledged. "But we both know why that's
      impossible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True…" He let a hint of doubt creep into his voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She raised an eyebrow. "We were there. We saw it. What more
      evidence do you need?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He shook his head. "But what else could it be? What wouldn't he
      tell us? He –" He dropped his voice, conscious that this place,
      though difficult to find, was still technically public. "He's
      changed, Hermione."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"None of us are the same people we used to be," she said
      coldly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco just shook his head. She would understand soon enough, and
      then she would start to wonder too. How had Cedric Diggory died?
      Was Voldemort really back?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What exactly had happened to Harry in that maze?</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
