<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>37. How HPMoR Should Have Ended - How HPMoR Should Have Ended Chapter 1, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="37. How HPMoR Should Have Ended"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's scar twinged one last time when the steel ring went on
      his pinky finger, holding the tiny green emerald in contact with
      his skin. Then his scar subsided, and did not hurt again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took another deep breath, still inhaling through his mouth
      even though this, rather than keeping from him the smell of the
      blood in the air, was just adding <em class="calibre7">taste</em> to the mix. He
      said "Lumos," and looked around the graveyard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Black robes and severed skull masks, surrounded by pools of
      blood -</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry found he had increasing problems breathing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knew that if he truly stopped to think about what he'd
      just done...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Thirty-six human beings.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(A catch in the breath, a double vision...)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When trapped in Azkaban, he'd considered solving his problems by
      removing a human being, one whose memories were
      <em class="calibre7">inconvenient</em> to him. There was a part of him that thought
      that was an okay way to solve problems.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a part of him, a <em class="calibre7">remnant</em>, which thought that
      that was <em class="calibre7">totally not what he was about</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(A network of horcruxes, confused, searched for the necessary
      living focal point, to complete the circuit... and found one that
      was almost a perfect match.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And only one of those two parts could walk away from having
      killed thirty-six people at the age of eleven with its sanity
      intact.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(The circuit closed.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A boy stood under the night sky, and found a feeling of...
      something that wasn't gratitude, but resembled it in a way, towards
      the late Professor Quirrel.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The boy's lips formed words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I cannot possibly get anything done in life if I am not willing
      to defeat my enemies."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have defeated some of my enemies today."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am a good boy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just like last time, it made him feel better.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Some time later...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello, Miss Granger. Are you ready to resume your service to
      House Potter?"</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
