<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>The Universe Is An Optimisation Problem - The Universe Is An Optimisation Problem Chapter 4: Ch4 – A Really Big Supermarket, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="The Universe Is An Optimisation Problem"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s4" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 4: A Really Big Supermarket</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">AN/1: I'm still working out a more regular posting
      schedule, it might have to be once every two weeks.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">AN/2: Here's something that was edited out in the first
      chapter that was meant to go just before Ozland's bit:
      imgur</strong> <em class="calibre8"><strong class="calibre7">dot</strong></em> <strong class="calibre7">com</strong>
      <em class="calibre8"><strong class="calibre7">slash</strong></em> <strong class="calibre7">HXZNHCY</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#######<br class="calibre4"/></strong>CHAPTER FOUR<br class="calibre4"/>
      <strong class="calibre7">#######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">THE BURROW, DOOR 74, 1183 DIAGON ALLEY, INSIDE A DIMENSIONAL
      SOMETHING THAT WASN'T EXPLAINED PROPERLY, LONDON</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"We had to move from Ottery St Catchpole during the War,"
      Mrs Weasley said, slightly stiffly, "there wasn't enough time to
      find a universe-fragment with a moon in it. Anyway," she
      brightened, "take care of yourselves, Albus, Minerva." They nodded,
      and disappeared in a puff of displaced air.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">She turned back to Ozland. "Want some lunch before we head
      out?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Burrow, as Ozland found out it was called, made for a
      welcome respite from the lunacy of wizarding Britain. As long as he
      avoided looking out the windows at the vast, ancient craters that
      pockmarked the rolling English countryside around them like the
      bullet-holes of a target on an interplanetary firing range, he
      could <em class="calibre8">almost</em> convince himself that there was really
      nothing wrong at all, and that he hadn't been whisked here — a
      pocket dimension, or <em class="calibre8">something</em> (Ozland still wasn't really
      completely clear on that bit) — by a 120-year-old magical
      Headmaster after jumping through a puddle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mrs Weasley had done the introductions for Mr Weasley, Ron,
      Ginny, Fred, and George in turn. There had been some brief
      confusion over Fred and George, with Fred insisting that he was
      George, and George insisting that he was Fred, until Mrs Weasley
      demanded that they show their birthmarks, and it had turned out
      that they had Apparated into one another's seats while nobody was
      looking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mr Weasley and Ron had immediately bombarded him with questions,
      and after he'd answered (shortly and vaguely), Fred or George would
      follow it up with some unexpected question that threw him
      completely off-balance every time — all the while with Ginny
      staring sullenly into the depths of her plate, as if the act of
      staring would reveal to her the answer to an ancient cosmic riddle
      carefully hidden within the strewn-about pieces of carrot and
      parsley.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eventually the twins seemed to grow bored with asking
      nonsensical follow-up questions, and started adding their own
      answers after Ozland had finished. It usually went like this:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron: So – is it <em class="calibre8">really</em> true everyone in New Zealand has
      to wear ground-harnesses or else they fall into the Sun?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland: No. Um, at least, I don't think —</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred (<em class="calibre8">confidently</em>): Of course not, Ronald. The Sun
      faces <em class="calibre8">away</em> from the Southern Hemosphere.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland (<em class="calibre8">cautiously</em>): Right now it's not, if that's what
      you mean. It does in daytime.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred (<em class="calibre8">even more confidently</em>): Exactly, when the Sun
      <em class="calibre8">does</em> face the Southern Hemisphere, the Moon's on the other
      side so it always cancels out the gravity.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron (<em class="calibre8">dubiously</em>): Wouldn't that just make you
      weightless?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">George: Not if you wear really heavy boots.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had made sure to wolf down the rest of his food (a slice of
      beef pie and pumpkin juice) as quickly as possible, which, quite
      cunningly, ensured that his mouth was full the whole time,
      rendering him unable to answer any questions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mr Weasley shook his hand vigorously after lunch had concluded.
      "Delightful talking to you, Ozland. And do try see what you can do
      about getting to the bottom of this thermos business, eh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland hummed noncommittally. (Mr Weasley had asked earlier how
      thermoses could keep hot things hot and cold things cold, and he'd
      muttered something about heat conduction without admitting he
      didn't actually know.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mrs Weasley called from outside, her voice carrying through the
      house. "Time to go! Chop chop!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The twins Apparated immediately, Ginny had already bolted out
      the door some time ago, and Ron was quickly finishing off the rest
      of the pie, wiping his mouth on his sleeve.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er, hey mate," he began awkwardly, as Ozland reached the
      doorway, "sorry for all the questions back then - I'm not
      <em class="calibre8">that</em> stupid," Ozland had been thinking 'gullible' maybe,
      but not 'stupid' - but Ron seemed intent on preemptively defending
      himself, "it's just, you know, with the twins it's always easier
      just to play along when they're doing their comedy routine." He
      visibly reddened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, no worries," replied Ozland, a little warily, "I guess it's
      refreshing to be the one answering questions instead of asking
      them." He waited for Ron, and they started walking to the outhouse
      which lead out of the Weasley's universe-pocket-thing (he
      <em class="calibre8">really</em> needed to get the mechanics of it explained to him
      sometime). "So," he said, "your brothers - they just Apparated,
      right?" <em class="calibre8">Note to self: brush up on small-talk.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron nodded. If he'd been aware of the clumsiness of the prompt,
      he gave no indication. "Ever since they got their licenses last
      year they haven't walked more than a yard. Well," he said,
      reflectively, "they do <em class="calibre8">sometimes</em>, for the novelty. We'll
      have to wait until Seventh Year before the lessons, though," he
      added, preempting Ozland's question. There was something very
      earnest and carefree about the way he spoke that Oz couldn't help
      but begin to warm to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah." Outside, he was reminded of Mrs Weasley's oddly stiff
      reaction to his question about the lack of a moon in their
      universe-pocket. He had the feeling that he really shouldn't be
      tugging at this particular thread, but it was also bothering him
      immensely. "Weird question, but I asked your mum about there being
      no moon in the sky - and she said that you guys had to move quickly
      - "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The red-head looked distinctly uncomfortable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, you don't have to - "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not really something we talk about," Ron said, quietly.
      "But I don't want you to think it was anything <em class="calibre8">really</em> bad,
      at least not worse than all the things that happened in the War."
      He exhaled. "Mum says Charlie was tortured under the Cruciatus
      until he told the Death Eaters where we lived. We had a half-hour
      to find a universe, cut out a fragment, put the house in it, and
      shove it in an internally-expanded rucksack. Bill says it's a
      wonder he managed to find somewhere with <em class="calibre8">air</em>, let alone a
      moon, in the time he had. He blames the whole thing on Dumbledore,
      for some reason, but mum's never been able to get him to tell us
      why."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Charlie and Bill would be your - ?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Older brothers, yeah."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They were nearing the door to the outhouse now - Mrs Weasley was
      passing out long scrolls of paper to Ginny and the twins, seeming
      to scold them for some reason, although Ozland couldn't make out
      the words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Was Charlie . . . okay?" <em class="calibre8">Why am I even asking
      that?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron looked at him strangely. "'Course, but, you know, he was a
      bit different after."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor McGonagall's words echoed in his head. <em class="calibre8">The Death
      Eaters, they were his followers . . . We're still recovering . .
      .</em> "Jesus, I'm sorry about that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not your fault, mate. And who's Jezars?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That broke up the mood a little. Ozland coughed. "Um, just a
      Moggley saying."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Muggle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, yeah. Muggle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Right</em>," Mrs Weasley said, with the air of a military
      general. "Ron, here's your list, you'll be teamed up with Ginny
      today." She handed Ron an unlabelled can. "Remember - use the
      everlasting baked beans to leave a trail, just in case you get lost
      - and <em class="calibre8">if</em> the store closes before you get out - "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stay put, cover myself in cooked chicken to stay warm, don't
      rely on the Compass Charm, got it," Ron said, vacantly, looking
      over his list before leaving with Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The first entrance to the Supermarket had been discovered, or
      created, or <em class="calibre8">something</em> by Giannis Slarkensson in 1973, and
      at that point, it was a small door, big enough only for a House
      Elf, with single turnstile. It could still be found along Side-Side
      Alley HNT-R2 – a mostly deserted street, which was itself the
      product of another magical accident – a fractal Geminio Curse cast
      by a disgruntled land developer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Since then, the Supermarket had almost metastasised all across
      Diagon Alley. Mrs Weasley said you could usually tell if a new
      Supermarket entrance was emerging by the lumpy, organic protrusions
      it made in the sides of buildings and cobblestone streets, before
      bubbling out into a set of revolving doors. There had been an
      article in <em class="calibre8">The Quibbler</em> about a woman who found an
      entrance to the Supermarket under her armpit, although apparently
      the evidence for that one was tenuous.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They had gone through the nearest entrance which was in one of
      the stalls in the men's bathroom of Borghill's Birdbath Boutique
      (there seemed to be a general alliterative trend with the naming
      schema, Ozland had noticed), and had come out, the blue-tinted
      light and chill air washing over them, between two freezers full of
      frozen peas, frozen kebabs and cheesecakes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As they walked down the rows of freezers, he hadn't been able to
      stop himself from gawping – he'd never really seen anything like it
      before. After the economic collapse of the seventies, either you
      knew people who knew people who could smuggle two metric tonnes of
      salad dressing through the Trans-Pacific Railway, or you whipped up
      homemade salad dressing with vinegar, white paint, and dilute
      nitric acid. There was something ravishingly beautiful about its
      cold, sterile regularity. <em class="calibre8">Consume me</em>, it beckoned.
      <em class="calibre8">Devour me, feast on me</em> -</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He reached towards a small strawberry cheesecake, and the voice
      abruptly stopped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Hold on, I think there's a sensible thing to ask in this
      situation. But for the life of me, I can't – oh, that's
      it.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, Mrs Weasley? Is this like a test of character or something?
      I'm not going to, say, eat this cheesecake, and then be turned
      <em class="calibre8">into</em> a cheesecake?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Heavens, no. Whatever you want, you can take it. It's all
      free," she replied, preoccupied with scribbling illegible words
      onto the shopping list.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And the price is, you know, really <em class="calibre8">nothing</em>, rather
      than pieces of my soul or anything like that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing but your waistline."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The voice started again as he cautiously bit into the
      cheesecake. <em class="calibre8">Yes, eat up, boy. Take another.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mrs Weasley," he said mildly, "there's a voice in my head
      telling me to eat up and take another cheesecake."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Nothing dodgy or sinister going on around here,</em> the
      voice said hurriedly, <em class="calibre8">purely altruistic motives. You just look
      a bit thin, that's all.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, it's telling me I look a bit thin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mrs Weasley glanced at him, then returned to her list. "You
      <em class="calibre8">do</em> look a bit thin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">See?</em>, said the voice, with a touch of indignance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Well</em>, thought Ozland, <em class="calibre8">I've never seen a newspaper
      with the title 'Man Saves Twenty Drowning Orphans, Builds Hospital,
      Helps At Homeless Shelter: Says A Voice In His Head Told Him To Do
      It'.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Well</em>, the voice said with scorn, <em class="calibre8">at least you're
      halfway acknowledging that you're irrationally prejudiced against
      disembodied voices, not many people are mature enough to do
      that</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Oh come on!</em> Ozland couldn't really think of any other
      responses.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">You enjoyed that cheesecake, but you're denying yourself the
      joy of eating another cheesecake, just because you got told to by a
      disembodied voice</em>, the voice continued, seemingly amused.
      <em class="calibre8">Do you need to hear 'Simon says' before you do anything? Take a
      look at that blueberry cheesecake over there, for instance - the
      company went out of business in 1968 in your world, so I found a
      world where they didn't. Luxury cheesecakes. Artisan cheesecakes.
      Full-cream milk, real blueberries. They used to go for fifty pounds
      a –</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Out out OUT, get</em> out <em class="calibre8">of my head, RIGHT
      now</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Alright, alright</em>, the voice said, clearly wounded,
      <em class="calibre8">I'll just –</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, Ozland," Mrs Weasley tapped her cheek, "you'll go with Fred
      and George. And if they get up to any <em class="calibre8">funny stuff</em>, make
      sure to tell me," she added, lowering her voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fred, George," she shouted at the twins (George was
      shoulder-deep in salted macadamia nuts, and Fred was egging him on
      to go deeper), "Ozland's coming with you, and in Merlin's name, if
      he gets <em class="calibre8">lost</em>, it's on <em class="calibre8">you</em> two to explain to
      Headmaster Dumbledore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">George dusted himself off, licking each of his fingers. "He
      won't get lost – "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" – unless he, you know, <em class="calibre8">gets lost</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">George turned to Fred. "That was a decent pun, and it's
      <em class="calibre8">your</em> fault for messing up the execution."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mrs Weasley, is this really something I should risk coming
      along for?" asked Ozland, who was beginning to reconsider the
      shopping trip.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Young man, it's no more dangerous than any other infinite
      supermarket - so long as you don't go past the butter with the
      purple spots and <em class="calibre8">treat the disembodied voice in your head with
      respect and give thoughtful consideration to whatever it says</em>
      - " (<em class="calibre8">How odd</em>, Ozland thought, <em class="calibre8">her lips were weirdly
      out of sync when she said that last bit</em>) " - and I promised
      Albus we'd keep an eye on you, so that's that." She checked her
      watch. "Ten past twelve, we're making good time. Be back here
      within the hour – and if it takes any longer, remind Fred and
      George to send a Patronus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred and George waved goodbye. As soon as she was gone, they
      whipped out their wands, and, after doing a few complicated swirly
      motions, tapped them to the ground and to one another's shoulders,
      and said "<em class="calibre8">Olenduvõrknit</em>" in synchrony. Ozland watched,
      fascinated, as a red thread appeared, linking all the places that
      they'd touched, swaying gently like spider silk. As they began
      walking, the thread extended itself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's one of ours – " said Fred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" – so keep it to yourself. We can trust you, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can barely remember it!" Ozland protested, struggling to keep
      up (the Weasley twins were rather taller than him).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Some child of prophecy," George murmured, grinning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait, what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dumbledore didn't tell you?" said Fred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, he might have suggested it really subtly but no he didn't
      tell me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then if he didn't tell you, you oughtn't to know and you'll
      probably find out later," remarked Fred sensibly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We <em class="calibre8">could</em> tell you," George added, "but it'd mess up
      the fabric of reality, and the Ministry'll fine us a hundred
      Galleons for that if we do it again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They came to a stop beside a row of edible roses. "Anyway," Fred
      interrupted Ozland before he could respond, "it's simple. Hold out
      your wand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland held out his wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, not like that you twonk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland held out his wand differently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, just like that. Now all you have to do is a fixed – by
      that I mean keep your wrist in the same place – twirl widdershins –
      counterclockwise, if you like – twice – doesn't matter how quick,
      then stab at the centre of your wand-circle, do a wiggly zig-zag
      thing down the middle, inside your wand-circle – that bit's not
      actually too important so just do it however you want – and say
      'olenduvõrknit'. You have to pronounce that <em class="calibre8">really</em>
      precisely – the 'o' in the 'duvõrk' isn't like a normal 'o' – you
      have to round your <em class="calibre8">lips</em> like an 'o', but you have to keep
      your tongue up – but not touching the roof of your mouth – just
      near your teeth. Syllable-stress doesn't matter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland went over the motions in his head. "Um, why do I have to
      be the one do this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred and George looked at one another, and then Fred casually
      brought out a small velvety box, snapping it open. Everything
      around them went utterly silent, as if the box was sucking in all
      the noise. "Alright," he said, "this is a Secret Box. Anything we
      say when it's open stays secret between whoever hears it, and if
      you can't give it away. By 'can't', I mean you really don't want to
      find out what happens if you <em class="calibre8">try</em> to. That includes what
      we're saying right now. So just to be sure, we have a Secret Box,
      you know what a Secret Box is and how to cast the spell we outlined
      before, and we did something other than efficiently find all of the
      things on the shopping list, engage you in friendly conversation,
      and come back as soon as we could."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">That's actually incredibly powerful.</em> "But why do I have
      to – "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because it's a soul-tracer which only works for your own soul,"
      said Fred, grimly, snapping shut the Box.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't get why you need that to be a secret," Ozland said,
      puzzled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Accio calamari</em>," Fred enunciated, and a packet of
      squid flew from the air and into his hands. "Unregistered soul
      magic is twenty years in Azkaban. It's daft, and I won't say any
      more. Now remember – fixed twirl, twice clockwise, centre-stab,
      zig-zag down the middle, 'o-len-du-võrk-nit' – "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" – with the tongue up for the 'o' sound in 'vork'. Got it,
      lemme just visualise it first." Ozland listed out the sequence in
      his head, then did it again, and then for a third time. He held out
      his wand, closed his eyes, imagined his wand, imagined his hand
      moving with the wand. <em class="calibre8">Fixed twirl, twice clockwise,
      centre-stab, zig-zag down the middle</em>. He almost shouted the
      incantation in his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For some reason, he felt oddly exhilarated, but breathless, at
      the same time. "Okay, right. Now I'll do it for real."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred and George were staring at him, standing stock-still.
      "Merlin," Fred murmured. "No wand movement, no words." He coughed.
      "Right, well, just tap it to the ground and you're sorted."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland complied, confused. A purplish line appeared. "What does
      it mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">George scratched his chin. "Casting a spell, with no wand
      movement and no words – it's not unheard of. But it's spiffing
      stuff, you know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Could be the concentrated ambient magic," Fred said without
      conviction. "Anyway, we've got fifty minutes left so we're going to
      have to hurry. <em class="calibre8">Skappakurg</em>." A plaited basket popped into
      existence in his hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They broke into a jogging pace, twisting and turning around
      corners, with Fred and George saying '<em class="calibre8">Accio everything on the
      shopping list</em>' at regular intervals. The Supermarket was a
      labyrinth, and Ozland realised what Mrs Weasley had meant when she
      warned the twins about him getting lost.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The items on the shelves began to look less and less familiar –
      Ozland passed by an entire section of candied spiders (Fred and
      George grabbed a few, "for Ron", they said, without elaboration),
      whale-meat on a stick, floating colourful pyramids, and then –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Jesus fucking Christ."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" said Fred and George simultaneously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland was standing in front of an entire shelf of chocolate.
      "What do you mean 'what?' – do you know how much this is all
      <em class="calibre8">worth</em>?" he said, incredulously. "Oh, unless this isn't
      real cocoa – that would make sense." He picked up a packet, turning
      over to the ingredients. He shook his head. "No way. No
      <em class="calibre8">fucking</em> way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred turned to his counterpart. "He's gone bonkers," he said,
      shaking his head. "No, really – what's the deal? It's just
      chocolate."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked at them, flabbergasted, and began shoving as many as
      he could into his jacket and pants. "This is <em class="calibre8">eighty
      percent</em> cocoa – <em class="calibre8">bullion</em> standard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Absolutely certifiable," muttered George, audibly. "We in
      range?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred pulled out a walkie-talkie. There was a hiss of static.
      "Not yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland ignored them, using a pen-knife to slice holes into his
      jacket so that he could stuff in a few more bars. By the time he'd
      finished, a quarter of his body-weight was in chocolate, and Fred
      and George were nothing but trailing red threads. It would be
      annoying and embarrassing, but if he could lug them home, it would
      easily be worth it - 'it' meaning some ridiculous amount of money.
      He picked up one, idly looking at the purple packaging. "Rowntree,"
      he read aloud, totally unnecessarily. His voice echoed
      slightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tearing off the wrapping and biting into the chocolate, he
      started running after the Weasley twins' trail. <em class="calibre8">Mystery solved
      — the Supermarket gets its stock from parallel universes or
      something.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He stopped, panting. Around him were what looked like TV
      dinners, but instead of chicken and potato and greens, there were
      bricks. Just a single brick, wrapped in plastic, in each one —
      covered in gravy. The language looked vaguely like Hebrew.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The section after it was filled with thirty-foot-long tentacles,
      frozen and bound together with rope. <em class="calibre8">Jesus, why the hell are
      Fred and George way out here?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland walked further, straining his ears, hearing a voice from
      not very far. "Fantastic ideas as always, Gred and Forge. As soon
      as we get ahold of a thousand-tonne block of stone, we'll try it
      out." There was a pause, interrupted by strange insectile clicking
      sounds. "Good to hear it, mate. Now, to hold up our end of the deal
      . . . "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He peeked around the next shelf, seeing a circular clearing that
      eventually branched out into six different paths. Fred stood in the
      middle. Up to one ear, he held a walkie-talkie. Out of the other, a
      snake-like wire that terminated in what looked to be a record
      player, except with a dictionary instead of a vinyl disc. George
      was rummaging through another shelf, looking intrigued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" . . . and when the prankee opens the door, the bucket of water
      falls onto them, getting them soaking wet. Brilliant stuff, innit?"
      Another burst of insectile clicking sounds. The dictionary flung
      open, pages flicking back and forth in a blur of paper. "Yeah, we
      thought so too." More clicks and more pages. "Okay, you two take
      care. Always a pleasure. Bye." George turned off the walkie-talkie.
      "Suckers. Fred, what's your estimate?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"About five thousand leagues north-north-west," said Fred. "We
      could probably take apart one of dad's cars, get all the pieces
      through the door, rebuild it, stock up on concentrated thaumic
      fluid, and be there and back in a week . . . and we've got ten
      minutes left - shite, we can still make it back."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">George pulled out the wire from his ear, twirled his wand, and
      the dictionary-record-player began folding in on itself like an
      origami city struck by an earthquake.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At the same time, Fred pulled out a long roll of what looked
      like a Persian carpet from his right pocket, throwing it out with a
      flourish. It floated above the floor, quite steadily, and Fred and
      George jumped on, lying belly-down. "Oi, Ozland, get on and hold
      on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland tentatively stepped onto the carpet, which rippled
      underneath him, lying down and holding onto the front. "Jesus, is
      this is a flying carpet?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Fred and George stroked and patted it, murmuring encouraging
      words, the carpet slowly began lifting up into the air, before
      accelerating forward. Oz realised hadn't really been able to
      appreciate what 'infinite' meant until he saw the gray horizon all
      around him. "Oi, don't hold onto the front - that's for steering,"
      said George. Ozland obediently grabbed onto the fur. "And to answer
      your question, no." George rolled over, digging into his pockets,
      before taking out the Secret Box again. His face was mischievous as
      he opened the lid. The roar of wind around them stopped, although
      he could still feel it on his face. "We applied a broomstick Charm
      while it was all rolled up, and it worked. So you could say it was
      a carpet which we tricked into thinking was a broomstick.
      <em class="calibre8">Real</em> flying carpets bend the space-time continuum around
      them to move around, that's how you tell." He closed the Box, and
      the wind resumed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mrs Weasley had been suspicious, but Ozland hadn't given any
      indication of anything out-of-the-ordinary happening, although his
      definition of 'ordinary' had been adjusted substantially.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Out in the birdbath store, he reluctantly handed over the
      chocolate to her to keep in her expanded purse, and in the process
      of looking through all of his pockets, he noticed that, nestled
      snugly in his sleeve, was a blueberry cheesecake.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Madam Malkin's was fairly ordinary apart from the self-animated
      measuring tapes — but then again, the Supermarket had also been
      fairly ordinary, apart from the fact that it was infinitely large,
      and tried to telepathically convince him to eat more
      cheesecakes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland tuned into the various voices drifting across the stalls
      next to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, Hagrid," came one voice, "what about the Dark Lords from
      Ilvermorny, or Beauxbatons, or Durmstrang, or for that matter, the
      Comintern Magic Academy — all I'm saying," the voice went
      conciliatory, "is that the statement 'All Dark Lords came from
      Slytherin', let alone 'You'll become a Dark Lord if you go to
      Slytherin' is subject to, uh, Anglocentric bias."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aye, I can see tha'," came a much gruffer voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And, you know," the other voice rushed on, "how many Dark Lords
      have there <em class="calibre8">been</em>, anyway? Not many, I'll bet. There's
      simply not enough data to draw sweeping conclusions like that — it
      would be like, um, say I had two goldfish, and say one of them
      dies, and the next day, there's a war in the Middle-East. And then
      another one dies a few years later, and there's another war in the
      Middle-East. Does that mean the deaths of my goldfish have anything
      to do with war in the Middle-East? Well, only two goldfish have
      died — that's nowhere near enough goldfish to draw any conclusions
      about any correlations between the deaths of goldfish and wars in
      the Middle-East. Or let's pretend that it really <em class="calibre8">is</em> the
      case that going to Slytherin, say, <em class="calibre8">triples</em> your likelihood
      of becoming a Dark Lord — if the prior probability is, um, six Dark
      Lords in the past five hundred years, and there've been twenty-five
      thousand Hogwarts students, that just means the likelihood of
      becoming a Dark Lord only went from 0.24% to 0.72%.
      '<em class="calibre8">Triple</em>' might sound <em class="calibre8">huge</em>, but in reality it only
      means the likelihood of that student becoming a Dark Lord increased
      by 0.48% and that's <em class="calibre8">tiny</em> — does any of this make
      sense?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a long pause.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, forget it then. How does this sound: I'll try and not end
      up in Slytherin — and if I do, I'll try to not become a Dark
      Lord."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"An' if yeh become a Dark Lord?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" . . . I'll be nice to my enemies, minimise casualties, and
      abide by international law?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing else noteworthy happened in the store.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The bookstore was also mostly ordinary, in the way that Ozland
      had come to realise was the case for most of wizarding Britain.
      Once you got down to it, it was just people jumping through puddles
      and wearing silly pointy hats. The fact that none of it made an
      ounce of sense didn't really matter. A firm principle Ozland had
      abided by ever since he'd thought of it an hour ago, was that if
      something in the world didn't make any sense to him, it was him at
      fault, not the world. All he knew for certain was that somehow it
      all worked out, that he'd figure out the specifics later, and that
      he'd use the specifics to either take over the universe or settle
      down somewhere and become a dentist in Surrey.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Apparently some of the books here scream and bite you if you
      open them the wrong way," remarked a girl, who'd politely shook his
      hand and introduced herself as Hermione Granger. She'd been going
      through a reference book of some sort, with the titles of other
      reference books in them, neatly inscribing numbers between 1 and
      3,856 beside them in red felt — presumably in the order she was
      planning to read them. They were in the middle of a long,
      partly-lit corridor with bookshelves on either side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cats do that too," Ozland said, feeling quite stupid.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She frowned. "If you open them the wrong way?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I'd think so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mhm," she mhm'd, turning back to her meta-reference book.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Honestly," Ozland began, who'd been struck by a burning desire
      to say something else absurd, "anyone who opens a book the wrong
      way <em class="calibre8">deserves</em> to be screamed at and bitten, in my
      opinion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What if it took their fingers off?" said the girl rather
      nonchalantly, without pausing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland doubled down. "Even if it took their whole hand off.
      Their whole arm, even."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She marked down '486', and then scribbled it out, writing '487'
      instead. A flash of annoyance passed over her face. "Where does it
      go, do you think?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where does what go?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The finger-pieces. Do you suppose it has a book-stomach to
      digest them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose," supposed Ozland. "But then again, I suppose it
      could just spit them out. Or maybe," he supposed further, with a
      speculative air, "the book <em class="calibre8">absorbs</em> the finger-pieces as
      new material, turning them into extra chapters, or adding
      unnecessary words to sentences to make the book longer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe," said the girl (from her tone, Ozland couldn't tell if
      she was being genuine or viciously mocking him), "maybe the font
      just gets larger and larger until they end up in the large print
      section."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then all the large print books would be covered in blood,
      wouldn't they?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Some of them <em class="calibre8">are</em> covered in blood." She flicked over
      to another page.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh." <em class="calibre8">That's a bit worrying.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor McGonagall says the defense mechanism instills
      healthy respect for books."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland leaned back against the bookshelf behind him, but felt it
      come unbalanced, even though it was, itself, leaning against a
      wall, and hastily straightened himself in the hope that he hadn't
      caused any permanent structural damage. "Ah, you've met her,
      then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She introduced me to," she waved her hand about, "all of
      <em class="calibre8">this</em>, just a few hours ago, actually."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">. . .</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That can't be right," said Ozland automatically, his grip on
      normalcy beginning to loosen, "um, unless by a few hours ago you
      mean only after twelve. Dumbledore said they were dealing with a
      Type Three something-or-other at Hogwarts so they needed to dash,
      and that's why they left me with the Weasleys at twelve."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The girl looked up from her book for the first time in ten
      minutes. "Well I'm not sure who <em class="calibre8">you</em> were talking to," she
      said, evidently thinking it over, "because she came over to my
      house at eleven, we left Ollivanders at eleven thirty, Madam
      Malkins finished the measurements for my robes at twelve . . . and
      it was twelve thirty when we finished buying a trunk, and twelve
      forty-five when we finished buying Potions equipment, and well, she
      left me <em class="calibre8">here</em> about a quarter of an hour ago saying she
      needed a good drink, and said she'd be back within the hour."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland buried his face in his hands. "Just when I thought I'd
      figured everything out. Oh, hold on. No, it's obvious: she has a
      sister who's also a Professor and also teaches at Hogwarts. There
      we go, no time-travel shenanigans necessary."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione opened her mouth to reply just as Professor McGonagall
      appeared around the corner, striding down the corridor and tutting.
      "Really, young lady — "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, Professor – " began Ozland.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She stopped, and raised her eyebrows. "Do I know you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Ozland, who was mildly confused at this new
      development, "you introduced me to the wizarding world a few hours
      ago. Shouldn't you be dealing with the Type Three florkpurple
      superintelligence thing at Hogwarts? It sounded fairly
      serious."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor McGonagall looked alarmed. "Who did you hear that
      from?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dumbledore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And when did you hear it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Twelve o'clock today," he answered, frustratedly, "when you two
      left me at the Weasleys." The thought occurred to him that he could
      be speaking to Professor McGonagall's body-double.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah," said Professor McGonagall, seeming even more alarmed. She
      turned to Hermione. "I'll just be a few moments more, dear, and
      then we'll go and fetch your Astronomy equipment," she said, before
      suddenly disappearing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That," said Ozland, "was weird as hell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione nodded in the very abstracted way that people doing
      numbers in their head do. "Ye-es."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He coughed. "Anyway, I've got all my books, so I'd best be
      going. I guess we'll, um, see one another at Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She looked mildly disappointed for some reason. "Alright."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland tripped on an uneven bit of carpet as he made his way
      down the corridor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The main area of the bookstore was thick with people, all of
      whom seemed to be ecstatically clamouring around, well, something
      or someone. It was difficult to say, in the same way that it would
      be difficult to say what a given whirlpool was <em class="calibre8">whirling</em>
      around. The screaming and bursts of light suggested two
      possibilities: either that someone was a celebrity being assaulted
      by photographers, or a central figure in a civil war which had
      recently erupted between Horticulture and Self-Help. Everything was
      humid and loud, and it was no wonder Hermione had chosen to escond
      herself in a section, which, to Ozland's knowledge, only had the
      reference volumes of every book that could ever exist in
      alphabetical order, except that the publishers had stopped at
      Volume QMXIIX due to poor sales. The one he'd picked up had started
      with the fascinating title of 'aaaaabaaaaa by aa' and, after a
      couple thousand pages, ended with the even more
      fascinating-sounding 'aaaaabbghlk by qz'. (It was useful if you
      already knew what book you were looking for, but not much else —
      which went a long way toward explaining the lack of foot-traffic.
      On the other hand, that 'else' was 'a way to torture someone
      without leaving any physical marks.')</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He quickly found Ron, who had relegated himself to the sidelines
      of whatever was going on, maintaining a wide peopleless space
      around him by sitting back in an an armchair and holding up to his
      face a book whose cover read 'Treat Your Own Incurable Infectious
      Incurable Diseases (Yes, They're Really That Incurable)' in intense
      green letters.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stand back, I have Arcturian whalepox – oh," Ron said, looking
      at him more closely and putting down the book, "come to get away
      from Lockhart, too, have you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The author, right?" This was something he was fairly confident
      about, having passed the rather well-stocked Lockhart Section.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"More than that," Ron went on, sullenly, "he's also a
      Memory-Charming psycho who got sentenced by the Wizengamot to
      permanent ravishment – er, banishment – "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" – about to say, permanent ravishment doesn't sound too bad –
      "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" – so he went to work for the Triad," Ron continued, glaring at
      him, "and obviously he did dodgy magic stuff with them – 'cos he
      ended up in the Executer Council and came back ten years later
      completely off the hook cos' he donated a few hundred thousand
      Galleons to the Ministry. 'S like everybody's bloody forgotten
      already. At least, that's what mum says. Oh," he added, as if only
      suddenly remembering, "and the bugger'll be teaching this year,
      too. Anyway, we might as well – "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just then, a hush descended over the bookstore, and a trembling,
      high-pitched, almost <em class="calibre8">wailing</em> voice reached their ears — it
      sounded oddly familiar, and by the fifth word, Ozland had nailed
      down the owner of the voice as Fred (or George, or potentially the
      third twin, William, who they'd insisted Mr and Mrs Weasley kept in
      the attic and fed a steady diet of fish-heads). They hadn't heard
      all of it, since the beginning had been masked by the tremendous
      noise of the crowd, but the bit they heard went like this: " . . .
      so you see, it's so, so expensive — the treatments for the
      non-transmittable version of Arcturian whalepox . . . "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Curiosity piqued (and then some), Ozland and Ron made their way
      through the crowd, until they could see what was happening. What
      was happening was . . . he was tempted to say two blonde copies of
      Ginny had made their way up to a small podium and were posing for
      photographs with a man who he presumed was Gilderoy Lockhart, but
      that probably wasn't it, except for the last part.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And your names?" asked a reporter. (At least, Ozland assumed
      she was a reporter – if she wasn't a reporter, she was certainly
      going for a reporter <em class="calibre8">look</em>.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Georgina and Frederica Sneasley," said the girls, again in an
      annoyingly high-pitched voice. One of them coughed, very loudly and
      very unsubtly, before doubling over and wheezing. A murmur of
      sympathy went through the crowd.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well well well," said the assumed Gilderoy Lockhart, rather
      magnanimously, "how does this sound? I'll give your family
      <em class="calibre8">all</em> of the required titles for this year's Defense Against
      The Dark Arts And Muggle Studies, completely free of - "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Defense Against The Dark Arts And Muggle Studies?" Ozland
      hissed to Ron, as the man continued to slather banalities on top of
      platitudes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Ron hissed back, "You-Know-Who put a curse on the
      Defense position a while back, so they keep combining classes and
      making frogs Professors and doing all sorts of nutty stuff to get
      it off. Hold on, why are we hissing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know," said Ozland in a normal voice, "it just seemed
      natural."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" - and might I ask <em class="calibre8">how</em> many of your other siblings are
      in need of my full book set?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Forty," said Georgina Sneasley. "Actually wait, fifty."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A stunned silence followed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just put it in the potato sack, thanks," Frederica Sneasley
      chimed in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart spluttered for a moment, counted out fifty book-sets
      wrapped in maroon ribbons, placing them one by one into the sack,
      with a faintly disgusted smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Ozland watched in wonderment, somebody tapped on his
      shoulder. He turned around, seeing Fred and George.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what's all this, then?" said George, looking genuinely
      curious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um," Ozland looked up to the podium, where the two girls were
      posing for photographs, "I thought I knew but I'm not sure
      now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron seemed to have had a similar reaction. He wasn't lost for
      words — he had all the words, but the order they were supposed to
      go in seemed to evade him at that moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The twins looked just as confused as they were.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um," ummed Ozland again, "well, I'll tell you what
      <em class="calibre8">happened</em> and leave the conjecture out of it." He told
      them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright," said Fred. "Seems obvious enough. We pulled off a
      fantastic prank and conned Lockhart out of hundreds of Galleons'
      worth of books, Time-Turned back to give ourselves an alibi, and
      Obliviated one another."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or," said George, "we, and by 'we' I mean us, standing here
      right now, haven't actually done it yet - "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait, what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" - but at some point in the future we'll Time-Turn back and do
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That . . . " he was about to say 'doesn't make any sense', but
      there had to be <em class="calibre8">some</em> kind of internally-consistent logic
      to all of it. "What if you don't do it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred and George shook their heads. "Honestly, take it from us –
      "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" – it's best not to go up against the underlying order of
      reality. Except on Sunday. Besides," George gesticulated in the
      direction of the two girls, who were taking questions from various
      journalists, "we've already done it," he grinned, "it'll be a
      bloody cake-walk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">As they walked through the Trunk Emporium (for Ozland's sake —
      the Weasleys already had trunks for the most part, and seemed
      determined to give him advice, as if they were helping him select
      his first car), Fred and George, having recently morphed from
      little blonde girls to lanky, red-headed teenagers, filled him on
      what had happened. "The trick," they'd said, "is leaving it right
      to the last minute. Then Time gets <em class="calibre8">really</em> desperate and
      arranges all sorts of weird coincidences."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That time, as they idly walked about in the street outside the
      bookstore, a broom-rider collided with another broom-rider, causing
      a brown parcel to fall onto George's head, which contained enough
      Polyjuice Potion for both of them to maintain a Polyjuiced form for
      four hours. They realised at that point, that for whatever reason,
      a strand of Ginny's hair was stuck to Fred's robe, put two and two
      together, downed the Polyjuice with the hair, and applied the
      Colour-Changing Charm to their own hair to turn it blonde. Then
      Fred accidentally spilt some of the Polyjuice on the ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The spill pattern spelt out the word 'Arcturian whalepox'.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They spilt some more, and got three paragraphs of detailed
      instructions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They spilt even more, and got a sentence reading 'Do this again
      and I'll sock both of you in the balls.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The rest, apparently, had gone very well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, not that one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why not that one?" Ozland asked Mrs Weasley for the umpteenth
      time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She knelt down, pointing at a series of subtle scratches along
      the base. "This one's been through at least two owners, or one
      owner who had it for a while. You can't fix scratches with ordinary
      repair Charms, you see. Interior expansions degrade over time – if
      you're not careful, it'll collapse into a singularity with you and
      your belongings inside."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The trunk salesman, having been busy with someone else up until
      that moment, stepped in. "An interesting choice, young man," he
      opened with, before breaking into a well-oiled spiel.
      "<em class="calibre8">This</em> was Paddaryll Cymeglen's trunk, who worked in the
      Department of Land Expansions and mapped two hundred universes up
      until his, er, disappearance. Well-loved and full of adventure,
      this trunk is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland's mind had gotten stuck on one particular word.
      "Disappearance?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," said the salesman, airily, "some say he and his belongings
      collapsed into a singularity, but the rumour going about is he
      hiccuped during a dimensional ritual and ended up somewhere far off
      the Charted Zone. In any case, this trunk has been revamped,
      recharged, and cleaned very thoroughly. And we've had an exorcist
      come in, just to be sure. Clean in both the material <em class="calibre8">and</em>
      spiritual realm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think I'll have to pass – "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I forgot to add, this certainly isn't an ordinary
      internally-expanded trunk – "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They all say that," Mrs Weasley huffed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" – in fact, it's not an internal expansion at all." He went
      into a theatrical hush. "Cymeglen made a direct link between our
      universe and his unregistered house in Cymeglen-551J."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"None of this makes any sense," complained Ozland very quietly.
      "I just want to buy a trunk and get this over and done with."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mrs Weasley seemed intrigued. "He did all of this
      <em class="calibre8">before</em> the passing of the registration laws?" she asked,
      carefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And it's eighty Galleons?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The same."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She paused. "Is there anything, you know, <em class="calibre8">wrong</em> with
      Cymeglen-551J?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's eighty fathoms out from the Official Registrar, so you
      can't be expecting Ministry emergency services, if that's what you
      mean."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's the divergence?" Mrs Weasley demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland folded his arms, glancing around the store. <em class="calibre8">Of all
      the things I thought I'd be doing today, I wasn't expecting 'buying
      a universe' to be one of them.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Something to do with giant potatoes and people speaking Norse.
      You'll have to Floo the Ministry assessor, I'll send you his
      details."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mrs Weasley tapped her cheek. "We'll take a look inside. And
      it'll have to be forty Galleons."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The salesman looked pained. "Alright, alright."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">They'd ended up in a gloomy, dusty room after coming down the
      stairs, stuffed with old furniture.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mrs Weasley had murmured what was supposed to be a simple torch
      Charm, but instead, a faint, pure musical note had rung through the
      air, grown more and more intense, and then cut off abruptly. After
      a few seconds of silence, the glassy orbs that they'd noticed
      before near the ceiling, flickered soundlessly, and then began
      warmly glowing. She brought out her wand, firing off a series of
      spells. "<em class="calibre8">Dzevzgalov</em>. <em class="calibre8">Point Me</em>. <em class="calibre8">Löciseng</em>.
      Alright, we're a mile from the Thames, and North is <em class="calibre8">that</em>
      way," she said, finally, looking bewildered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Potatofind</em>," incanted George. "There's a – "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not a spell," said Ron, stumbling over a pea-green
      armchair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is too," shot Fred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" – fifteen-tonne potato under this house."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Potatofind</em>," said Mrs Weasley, copying his
      wand-motion. "Merlin, there really <em class="calibre8">is</em> a fifteen-tonne
      potato underneath . . . underneath the one next to us, too. Mr
      Forksworth," she said, addressing the salesman, who looked
      distinctly alarmed, "are you <em class="calibre8">sure</em> you don't remember
      anything else?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mr Forksworth furled his eyebrows in thought. "There was
      something about a famine, but I'm afraid I'm really not sure. And
      I'm certain the Ministry assessor talked about vikings — really,
      you'll have to ask him. By the way," he said, nodding at Ozland,
      "the house is yours, too. Sixty Galleons?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, sure – "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright, just sign this, this, and this. Fabulous. And we'll
      just have to change the blood wards. <em class="calibre8">Aithnedìonffuil</em>."
      Something in the air in front of Ozland <em class="calibre8">sharpened</em> into an
      upward curving point, like a glass mountain, becoming more and more
      distinct until it was a jutting crystal.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just reach out and prick your finger on the tip to seal the
      wards. Give it a strong tap."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland did exactly that, and winced as blood blossomed from his
      index finger. It seemed to disperse through the air in vivid,
      roiling curls, giving the whole room a faint red tinge before
      dissipating.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mrs Weasley and the salesman congratulated him, and Fred and
      George clapped him on the back — but he wasn't really paying
      attention, because he'd just noticed that the room around him was
      filled with trunks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#######</strong></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
