<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>The Universe Is An Optimisation Problem - The Universe Is An Optimisation Problem Chapter 5: Ch5 – A Cassette, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="The Universe Is An Optimisation Problem"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s5" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 5: A Cassette</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">AN/1: okay I have a new schedule where I try to post
      every two weeks on a Wednesday and even though that hasn't been
      working out I'll try to stick to it.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">AN/2: After this chapter goes up I'll have enough
      potential plot-hooks to last until the universe reaches
      thermodynamic equilibrium woohoo</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">CHAPTER FIVE</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">The Daily Mail</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">GALACTIC WHODUNNIT: SCIENTISTS FIND INEXPLICABLE VOID IN
      UNIVERSE</p>
      <p class="calibre6">March 1, 1983</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After analysing the latest data from the Rockefeller Wide-Array
      Moon Telescope, scientists at the Royal Observatory have reported
      the discovery of a "perfectly spherical void" in the middle of the
      Virgo Cluster, where matter is not only more sparse, as has been
      observed in other voids, but "totally absent". The newly-discovered
      void has been named the Tibbles Void, after the late Walter
      Rockefeller's cat, who recently came into the possession of his
      enormous fortune.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Photographs of the edges of the Tibbles Void show galaxies
      "cleanly bisected", still more torn apart due to an unknown violent
      cosmic event [...]</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's parents had always enjoyed a good protest – as long
      as they were small, quiet, and didn't accomplish anything they
      could indirectly hold responsibility for. This was one of the many
      areas where Hermione differed from her parents. She'd gone to
      protests out of an indirect obligation to whales, trees, and
      elderly people, none of whom presumably could advance their
      interests without her help.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On the seventh of May 1991, it was drizzling and the grey clouds
      were milling about in the sky, as if waiting for the weather-police
      to come along and arrest them for loitering. People were milling
      about on the ground, setting up stands and hurriedly finishing
      their placards, waiting for the demonstration to reach critical
      mass. A homeless man sat at the edge of the water fountain with a
      newspaper unfolded in his hands. 'FTSE FALLS ANOTHER 2%' – the
      title had been the same yesterday, and the day before that.
      Policemen stood at the fringes of the Square, looking
      uncertain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione?" came Anita's voice from behind her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everything went into a half-second loop. The pigeons flapped
      their wings, and flapped them and flapped and flapped. The
      newspaper turned over in the homeless man's hands, and then jumped
      back to the start, again and again and again. Everyone around her
      was walking, and then they were back to were they were, and then
      they started walking. There was a low buzz that she hadn't noticed
      before, like ten trillion electronic hornets all descending on her.
      There was suddenly a second, reddish moon in the sky.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She turned around, but somehow she stayed in the same place
      because she could see into the back of her head and her squishy,
      reddish brain like cross-sections had been cut into it with a
      butcher's knife and her hair flailing about in a loop and she was a
      big trail like on the terminal screen when everything froze up and
      you dragged the mouse across and it made a big mouse trail behind
      it. She walked forward until she could see Anita's face, but Anita
      was melting like the time she'd put a little green soldier in a
      microwave and watched it collapse into a puddle and begin to burn
      vicious, noxious smoke. Her pointy nose was drooping and her blue
      eyes were glassy and dull and started leaking out of her face. Her
      mouth stayed in the same place, but her lips were slugs and her
      teeth had gone shiny and reflective, a chrome finish.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm dead," Hermione said, and suddenly there were hornets
      everywhere, stinging and biting her flesh, tearing it off in chunks
      and carrying it away. They were laughing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," said Anita's slug-lips. "<em class="calibre8">I'm</em> dead. I'm dead I'm
      dead I'm dead I'm dead I'm dead I'm dead I'm dead I'm dead I'm dead
      I'm dead I'm dead I'm dead I'm dead I'm dead I'm dead I'm dead I'm
      dead I'm dead I'm dead I'm dead I'm dead I'm dead I'm dead I'm dead
      I'm dead I'm dead I'm dead I'm dead I'm dead I'm dead I'm dead</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">ELKNIWT'S ASTRONOMY SUPPLIES, 1511 NOGAID ALLEY, LONDON</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cymeglen's trunk had been filled with other trunks. This was
      surprising because according to just about everyone else, the room
      was filled with old furniture. Ozland asked many times just to be
      sure, and then had to defend himself from allegations of
      trunk-madness, whatever that was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After having afternoon tea, they puddlejumped to the faded
      exterior of Elkniwt's Astronomy Supplies on 1511 Nogaid Alley. A
      tattered poster was stuck to the door, reading 'CLEARANCE SALE',
      then below in smaller letters 'IT'S ALL FREE' and then in even
      smaller letters 'you bastards'.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They walked in, and found that the owner had apparently gone to
      a great effort to make the store look thematically appropriate by
      removing all the lighting fixtures and leaving the entire store in
      total darkness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So," said Ozland, "why's it called Nogaid Alley?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright," said George, "allow me to set the scene. February 5,
      1981. An enterprising Muggleborn salesman by the name of –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's another universe someone busted a hole into," interrupted
      Ron, tersely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"– William Dowpill wants to set up a crumpet-stand, but he
      doesn't have a license."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ooh," Fred oohed. "And Ron, every interruption is another
      candied spider."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron shrank back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what does he do? He casts a land-expansion ritual near the
      edge of Diagon's dimensional pocket, opens up our dimension to
      blankspace, and sets up his crumpet-stand in it, operating on the,
      may I say, ironclad logic that the Ministry has no jurisdiction
      over blankspace, since it technically doesn't exist."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what happened next?" asked Fred, hushed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">George gestured expansively with his arms. "The crumpet-stand .
      . . acted as a <em class="calibre8">seed</em> – hold on, no, a <em class="calibre8">key</em> – a
      <em class="calibre8">key</em> that opened a door into another universe in the
      apartment below. <em class="calibre8">But</em>, now here's the thing – the version
      of William Dowpill in that sideways-universe <em class="calibre8">also</em> casted a
      land-expansion ritual, and so did the other one the next universe
      over. <em class="calibre8">Infinitely</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The strangest thing!" exclaimed Fred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And eight universes down . . . there was a universe where
      pointy hats were considered a form of sexual deviancy, so the
      Ministry of Magic for <em class="calibre8">that</em> universe sealed itself off,
      ending the chain. Fifty thousand witches and wizards, all stranded
      sideways through hyperspace, their own dimensional pockets sealed
      off from the outside world and glued together with ours."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A tragedy!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So we fined them for four hundred years of unpaid taxes,
      copyright violations, and construction without permits, and backed
      it up with the Cup of Magic. Oh, and we put a Jinx on all of them
      to give them funny accents."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And <em class="calibre8">that</em>," ended Fred, "is how Nogaid Alley got its
      name."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny clapped sarcastically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, I imagine they wouldn't be too happy about any of that.
      Being debt peons."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Doesn't matter," said Ron, "they're not <em class="calibre8">real</em>,
      anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone except for Ozland nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um," said Ozland, making a resolution to start sentences with
      'um' less, "I might be missing something obvious here, but why is
      that exactly?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron looked at him as if he'd not only grown another head, but as
      if that additional head had grown tiny bat wings and begun lifting
      him up into the air. "Er, they don't have souls, their universes
      don't have prophecies – and that means they don't have free will
      –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do you know they don't have souls?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"'Cos you can't sacrifice their souls in rituals. You can
      sacrifice their life-force, but there's nothing else to sacrifice.
      First thing the Ministry tried when we opened up a Gateway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, now what about the prophecies and the free will
      thing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron sniffed. "Well it's obvious, innit? They don't have any
      prophecies so they don't have free will."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A prophecy as in . . . a prediction about the future that has
      to come true?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron nodded, taking on a more serious tone, as if he was giving
      an answer for an exam. "Prophecies are the motor-force of history –
      without prophecies, the only reason why things would happen is
      because other things happened before them, with all of those things
      happening as material interactions. But since those material
      interactions converge on a particular outcome in accordance with
      prophecy, that implies that free will exists to guide those
      material interactions towards that outcome. Therefore,
      sideways-people are biological automatons."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's twisty and makes no sense," Ozland wanted to say, and
      then realised that he'd actually said it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A shrug from Ron. "Got me a EE in the Land Expansion course, so
      it can't be all wrong."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's the kind of thing I'd make up if I wanted to justify the
      . . . sideways-peoples' position as eternal debt-peons."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's just how it is," shrugged Fred, seeming unconcerned,
      "might as well not feel bad about it all. Be happy, feel good, and
      be feel happy-good, that's my life philosophy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where's Mum?" said Ron, knotting his eyebrows.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She found a cube-shaped globe of the Earth and she's flipping
      it for a Galleon in the universe with the weird numbers," said
      Ginny. "At least that's what she said. I'm pretty sure she was
      lying, since we don't <em class="calibre8">need</em> to flip things anymore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"On that note," said Fred, "or at least one of those notes –
      whatever one is closest to what I'm about to talk about – the owner
      probably put a bunch of cool Curses on his merch, and we're going
      to need to investigate for investigatory purposes. Ginny, stay at
      the front – otherwise you'll get lost or have your fingers bitten
      off by Cursed doorknobs, or both, hopefully."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wouldn't – even if I wanted to, which I don't. Gwynne's
      talking to me over the windspraek."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, Ginny – you don't have to invent imaginary friends to
      impress us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You . . . you two <em class="calibre8">literally</em> met her last year at the
      Slug Party, what the <em class="calibre8">fuck</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Ginny," Fred said, affecting a sympathetic tone, "we
      <em class="calibre8">definitely</em> met her," he elbowed George, "didn't we,
      George?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," said George, "shook hands and everything. She was
      definitely, you know, physically there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny stormed off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright, back here in fifteen? Catch you later, Ozzy,
      Ronniekins."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a stretch of silence, during which they walked by a
      long row of telescopes, all jammed into a brick wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you ween that's for?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's take a look-see," Ozland said, tripping on an uneven bit
      of carpet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron grabbed his shoulder. "Yeah, mate – <em class="calibre8">not</em> a good
      idea. You don't just <em class="calibre8">take a look-see</em> through a telescope
      in the back of a forgotten store abandoned by the dimensional-twin
      of a mad store-owner . . . oh Merlin, I think I've seen this in a
      play or something." He held up a finger. "It's on the tip of my
      tongue."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland waited patiently for over a minute.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Jungles of Aphrodite</em>," Ron triumphantly burst out.
      "They look through the telescope, and before they know it, they get
      sucked in and get put on Venus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I fell asleep after that, but the twins said everyone died. I
      think the main lesson is, don't go looking into random telescopes
      until you know for sure that they're not Cursed or haven't had
      eldritch magic done on them." Ron did a twirly-loopy thing with his
      wand (Ozland wondered whether wand-motions had any pattern or
      structure) before pointing at the telescopes and ending it with
      "<em class="calibre8">Revelare maledicta</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron scratched his head. "You know what would really be useful?
      If they started glowing bright green. Then I'd be able to tell the
      difference between 'not cursed' and 'I messed up the spell'. Good
      work, there, Infectus, you bloody brilliant spellcrafter," he
      sighed. "Alright, now for the, er, eldritch magic detection spell.
      <em class="calibre8">Verdobrillo</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The telescopes began glowing bright green.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland stared. "Eldritch or not-eldritch?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" . . . I don't really know the spell for detecting eldritch
      magic, that was just the spell for making things glow bright
      green," Ron admitted. "I'm sorry, I needed a win."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Silencio</em>," came a soft voice from behind them. A
      yellowish ray of light struck Ron, who had begun to dodge.
      Unfortunately, the direction he dodged in was upwards. Ozland swung
      around as Ron began vigorously mouthing words for some reason, only
      to see a blonde girl about a half-head shorter than him wrapped in
      a knitted quilt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you from the outside?" she asked, very normally.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"From the what?" Ozland reached for his wand, but realised he
      didn't know anything except for the spell the twins had cast back
      in the Supermarket except that it was useless for defending himself
      and he'd forgotten it, and eventually he awkwardly slung his hand
      by his side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The girl turned her head, seeming to peer into the gloom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The quiet stretched on until it was almost unbearable, and then
      –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have wandered here for so many years. I was born in the
      darkness, my mother was born in the darkness, and her mother before
      her. But that is long ago," she waved her hand contemptuously, "and
      I have taken many forms since then. Where do you hail from,
      stranger?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron began screwing up his eyebrows and pointing his wand at
      himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um," Ozland began, instantly hating himself, "um –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, a traveller from the city of Um. I had thought it to be
      long gone, even in my time, but evidently Um has risen once more,
      as it was foretold by Prachit the Terrible –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron doubled over, gasping. "This is Luna Lovegood and she's in
      the year below us and she does this <em class="calibre8">all the time</em> and
      <em class="calibre8">you can't just pretend to be insane whenever Flitwick tries to
      give you detention the only place where that works is Muggle
      television</em> –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um," said Ozland, astutely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"– and <em class="calibre8">why</em> did you <em class="calibre8">silence</em> me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because," Luna remarked, "I knew you'd ruin my sketch."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"– and <em class="calibre8">how</em> didn't we see you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Something something Nargles."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">What?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ignore him," she said to Ozland, gesturing at Ron, who was
      rubbing his head. "I'm Professor Lovegood, senior Transfiguration
      lecturer at Hogwarts and undercover Auror at the DMLE's Bad Things
      Division. I adopted this youthful form earlier this year to get on
      the inside of a daffodil-smuggling ring – daffodils are legal, but
      we have a strict no-ring policy at Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm Ozland Cunningham, Mars-Minister of General Affairs of the
      New Zealand branch of the Celestian Unorthodox Church," said Ozland
      automatically. <em class="calibre8">God I'm so confused.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron spluttered. "Luna is fourteen or something and I've seen her
      do this bit three times before. Also, Ozland, <em class="calibre8">what?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The girl in the quilt tapped her cheek. "I think I might've seen
      your name somewhere in the Muggle newspapers my dad reads."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, that's it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Exposition. And this late in the story too, how lazy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er," said Ron, "you know we can't see exposition, right,
      Luna?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is getting too meta for me," muttered Ozland.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, no," said Luna, breaking into an unusually deep
      belly-laugh, "this is just my 'pretending we're all in a book'
      gimmick."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland clasped the side of his head, suddenly overcome by a
      nauseating wave of unreality. "Look, Ron – let's just pull the
      telescopes out of the wall and get going. Luna, whatever you were
      doing . . . what <em class="calibre8">were</em> you doing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mhm," hummed Luna, completely ignoring the question, "well,
      you'd want the second and third ones then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come on," said Ron, also clasping the side of his head and
      looking upwards at the ceiling for no discernible reason, "tell us
      what all of them do. There's a good gag here, I can <em class="calibre8">sense</em>
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think the universe works like that, Ron," said
      Ozland.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," replied Luna, "the first one shows you the back of your
      head."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron nodded. "Uh-huh."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Does Luna always make things this weird?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The second one shows you the world from five minutes ago."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron nodded with more vigour. "Yup, keep going."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How does she know any of this, anyway? I think she's just
      making it up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The third one shows you what the world would look like if
      telescopes hadn't been invented, but it's pretty pointless because
      it's pointing at Sagittarius right now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, great! Now that we've wrapped everything up –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, and the fourth one sucks you up and puts you on Venus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was five o'clock, and Ozland had been awake for twenty-five
      hours. The twins had bought him a lemonade-flavoured Wakefulness
      Potion in a crystal vial, which he'd gulped down with wild abandon.
      The feeling was identical to agrypnomorphine – a dirty, giddy,
      paranoid buzz. The thought occurred to him: what if agrypnomorphine
      <em class="calibre8">was</em> Wakefulness Potion? Wakefulness Potion, perhaps
      adulterated with some other stimulant, manufactured in magical
      Britain, sold onto the Triad, and concentrated into the powder that
      businessmen sprinkled onto their coffees and rubbed into their
      gums?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sights and sounds around him, dulled by sleep deprivation,
      became jabbing pains.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He became painfully aware of his own powerlessness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny was a year younger than him, but knew three years worth of
      spells.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron seemed friendly, if not slightly insecure, but when they'd
      gone for lunch at Florean Fortescue's, he'd played Ozland for ten
      one-minute quick games of chess, always starting with the Bongcloud
      Attack, and had swiftly won each game.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The twins had a Secret Box, a flying carpet, Time Turners and
      God knew what else, were coming into their Seventh Year, and had
      invented at least five original Charms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mrs Weasley seemed familiar with ritual theory, had three
      decades of post-Hogwarts experience in magic, and had fought in a
      war.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Every person passing by, perhaps with the exception of small
      children, could easily kill him – and the only thing keeping him
      safe was that, at the moment, nobody had a sufficiently good reason
      to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come on now, it doesn't take that long."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mum, he's on Wakefulness Potion," said Ginny. "And besides, he
      doesn't have a Ministry-issued floppy disk yet, so he can't do it
      anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They were on Side-Alley 5K. Or were they? Ozland saw the sign a
      few minutes ago, but he could easily have been False
      Memory-Charmed. All he knew was that people who looked like Mrs
      Weasley, Ginny, and him were standing outside a series of what he
      assumed were golden fridges, or telephone booths. Was he even
      him?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">And</em> he's obviously in a paranoia loop. Just look at
      his eyes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh dear, he is, isn't he? <em class="calibre8">Disconfundo</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland suddenly lost track of what he was thinking about.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ozland?" Mrs Weasley said softly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes?" There was something he was thinking about but he wasn't
      thinking about it anymore. What had he been thinking about? Think,
      think, think. He could see the shape of the thought, like a wrapped
      gift, but he couldn't untie the bow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is a Rejuvenation Booth."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is a Rejuvenation Booth," Mrs Weasley patiently repeated.
      "You're going to have to learn how to use one of these, so pay
      attention. Wand out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland dug through his pockets for his wand, while Mrs Weasley
      looked on, disapprovingly. He was struck by the oddity of the
      scene. The sky now had a purplish tint and the second red moon had
      the malevolent radiance of a stop-light. The clouds were even odder
      than when he'd first jumped out of a puddle and into Diagon Alley:
      spinning triangles, like hookah-rings blown by a god trying to show
      off. The buildings around them were much posher, with jutting decks
      and silver rails, but were still intimidating in the same way that
      forests with tall trees were.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We'll have to get you a proper holster, too. Now, listen
      closely. It's very simple. First, do a rotated sigma-swish – by
      that I mean trace the letter 'M' – then draw a small circle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He traced out the motions. The sequence felt oddly natural.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, you don't have to do this part." She swished her wand
      about. "<em class="calibre8">Epísimo aítima pros to Ypourgeío</em>. I, Molly
      Weasley, request the use of twenty kilothaums for the purpose of a
      standard rejuvenation ritual to be conducted within Booth Number
      1092."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"REQUEST APPROVED," boomed a voice from no particular direction.
      "THREE KNUTS HAS BEEN CHARGED TO YOUR ACCOUNT."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mrs Weasley grasped at the air and pulled, until a fragment of a
      line, thinner than a hair, but thicker than spider silk, appeared
      between her thumb and index finger. She went around to the side of
      the booth, where a copper rod jutted out from its scratched
      surface, and wound the thread around the rod.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The front of the booth opened with a click, revealing a slot,
      into which Mrs Weasley placed a 3½ inch floppy-disk labelled 'MW,
      subt-aged, 20s' in neat cursive. Inside the booth, on the ground,
      was the chalk outline of a circle. She then brought out a needle
      and pricked her thumb, allowing a drop of blood to spill into the
      centre, walking into the circle. The door closed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a murmuring of words, a kettle-like squeal, and a loud
      bang.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny leant against a pole, staring disinterestedly up at the
      sky.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mrs Weasley stepped out, looking subtly older. Her eyes were
      more crinkled, her posture sharper, and there were streaks of gray
      in her imperceptibly-thinner hair. In his heightened state of
      awareness, Ozland noticed she was wearing a plain silver wristband,
      and remembered that Professor McGonagall had been wearing one too –
      Dumbledore's had been gold. (The thought occurred to him that in a
      society where everyone looked to be in their mid-20s, status
      symbols would become necessary.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Class of 1966 Gryffindor gala," she said, as if that explained
      anything. "Have you thought about what House you'll be in?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"House? Um, not really."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She opened her mouth, as if she was about to say something, when
      a raven Patronus appeared, perching on top of the booth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A high-pitched voice rang out from its beak: "Molly, where are
      you? Albus wants the boy at Hogwarts!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Side-Alley 5K, near the booths," Mrs Weasley enunciated
      crisply. "Professor Flitwick, he teaches Charms and Ritual Theory,"
      she added, after the raven had flown off. "In any case, you should
      consider Gryffindor. It's the House we were Sorted into, along with
      Minerva, Chief Warlock Dumbledore – and most of the Light side of
      the War."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland's head spun with all of the implied capital letters. "Why
      not the others?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny, who had been quiet up until that point, piped up.
      "Slytherins are slimy aristocrats, Hufflepuffs are losers, and
      Ravenclaws are goody-goody book–"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mrs Weasley shot Ginny a disapproving look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A tiny man in green robes whirled into existence on the
      cobblestones a few feet from them. He slipped on a puddle, almost
      falling flat on his back before he somehow managed to right
      himself. "Ah," he squeaked brightly, "Molly, Ginny . . . and you
      must be Ozland Dwimmersmith, yes?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Ozland, stiffly, unsure as to what else he should
      say.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then I'm afraid you will have to bid the lovely Weasleys adieu
      and bring your no-doubt exciting shopping excursion to a close –
      the Headmaster requests your presence in his office to discuss your
      lodging situation," the tiny man frowned, "and a few other things,
      I would imagine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland shook Mrs Weasley's hand, and after some heavy-handed
      prompting, Ginny shook his hand too, seeming delighted to almost
      squeeze it into a pulp. "Thank you," Ozland said with as much
      genuineness as he could muster, "and I'm not saying that as a
      nicety either. Today has been – well, I checked to make sure I
      wasn't dreaming nine times today, that should give you an idea. And
      I'm still confused about a lot of things, including how your
      economy works and what the whole dimensional pocket business is
      about – but all of you are such wonderful people and I don't think
      there could've been a better family in wizarding Britain to
      reacquaint me with this world, and I hope one day I can discharge
      my enormous debt to all of you. Please give Ron and the twins my
      regards – and as soon as I find out how thermoses work, I'll send a
      letter to Mr Weasley. Also keep the chocolate safe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Flitwick took out a checkered handkerchief twice the
      width of his face, dabbed his eyes, and sneezed into it, very
      emotionally. "Truly, truly heartwarming. And dear me, would you
      look at the time – we have about fifteen minutes until you're
      expected to meet with the Headmaster – we'd better Apparate." He
      held out his arm. "Irish jig position, please, Ozland."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a few more goodbyes, they hooked their arms together.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Three, two, one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The streets around him vanished and everything went dark and
      cramped. Ozland remembered Professor McGonagall had said that
      Apparition felt like being forced through a curly drinking-straw –
      it turned out to be a very accurate description.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They landed inside a treehouse, spinning on the spot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked around. "How many students does Hogwarts
      <em class="calibre8">have</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Flitwick opened the door to the treehouse, revealing a long
      cable to which a little wooden carriage was attached, a cable that
      descended from the treetops to a castle obscured by a light mist in
      the distance. "Hogwarts proper is warded against Apparition – this
      is an outpost." He opened a second, creaky door which lead into the
      carriage and hopped inside, seating himself on a patterned stool.
      "Oh, don't be alarmed – it's Charmed for balance and flawless
      function," he said, at Ozland's reluctance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland clambered his way in, tripping on an uneven bit of carpet
      before finding himself a stool to sit on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The little man flicked his wand, and the carriage lurched.
      Looking out the window, he could have sworn the trees were
      <em class="calibre8">bending</em> out of the way to accommodate its breakneck
      speed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So," said Flitwick conversationally, "had a hectic day, did
      you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To say the least."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They sat in silence, the professor tapping his knee with
      frenetic regularity. Despite his jovial disposition, Ozland had the
      sense that something was making him uneasy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Flitwick cleared his throat. "Have you thought about what House
      you'll be in?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland wondered, not for the first time, whether he had any
      choice in the matter. From what he'd heard, whatever sorting
      mechanism Hogwarts was using, it was based around literary
      archetypes and high-school sitcom clichés, rather than anything
      sensible. Would it be a hundred-question personality test? Some
      sort of trial by fire? A mind-reading device? Clearly personal
      preferences had some effect on the sorting process, otherwise
      nobody would be attempting to sway him to their way of
      thinking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er, no."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Charms Professor seemed to take this as his cue. "Now, I
      know the Weasleys have probably already sold you on Gryffindor,
      but," he held up a finger, "Ravenclaw is really where you'll want
      to be if your temperament is more quiet and studious – we're one of
      the best-performing Houses academically, and we have <em class="calibre8">very</em>
      active study and support groups managed by our helpful Prefects –
      which could be a boon in your case, since you'll be catching up
      with four years of coursework – and I have to say, our common room
      has a simply <em class="calibre8">breathtaking</em> vista in addition to our own
      library –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anything wrong with the other Houses?" Ozland asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"– ah, there's nothing <em class="calibre8">wrong</em> with the other Houses
      <em class="calibre8">per se</em>," Flitwick said, slightly thrown by the sudden
      interjection – and then, as if considering the question more
      deeply, he went on. "In Gryffindor, it's almost inevitable you'll
      become caught up in some wild shenanigans, docked points for
      something you weren't responsible for – if you're with the wrong
      people at the wrong time – and Gryffindors . . . tend to be, ah,
      <em class="calibre8">headstrong</em>, very prone to quick judgement rather than
      rigorous analysis – make of that what you will," he paused,
      grimacing, "<em class="calibre8">Slytherin</em> . . . I would recommend strongly
      against Slytherin." He seemed pained. "If you <em class="calibre8">are</em> Sorted
      into Slytherin, I would urge you to file an appeal with the
      Headmaster."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You haven't been to wizarding Britain in a number of years, is
      that right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The last time I was here, I was a toddler."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mhm," hummed Professor Flitwick, "there is a cultural jump from
      Muggle to wizarding society, I'm told. But the jump from Muggle to
      Slytherin society is much greater. Hierarchies, alliances, codes,
      conspiracies, historical feuds between families, deference, blood
      <em class="calibre8">purity</em>," he looked particularly disgusted at the word,
      "Slytherin children are accustomed to all of those things. A wrong
      word at the House table could have you shunned for the remainder of
      your years at Hogwarts – very unpleasant, unfortunately I have been
      witness to the phenomenon a number of times. And, naturally, the
      Slytherins will assume that you will be a Muggleborn, from whom
      they demand submissiveness. A momentary lack of civility will be
      treated as the upending of a natural order, and Slytherins do not
      take to threats, however slight, to their aristocratic privilege
      very kindly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">That sounds fairly interesting, actually</em>. "And
      Hufflepuff?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Flitwick lightly coughed. "Slytherin is known for its
      cunning, Ravenclaw for its wit, Gryffindor for its bravery.
      Hufflepuff is known as the House to which students who possess none
      of those virtues are Sorted. Although, in all respects, Hufflepuff
      is a very pleasant, very lovely House to be in, I'm told," he
      added, unconvincingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What is</em> up <em class="calibre8">with these people and constantly
      shitting on Hufflepuff</em>? "Ravenclaw <em class="calibre8">does</em> sound very
      appealing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good to hear," Flitwick replied, although he still seemed
      tense. There was a long lull, in which nothing but the swishing of
      the trees around them could be heard. The castle loomed larger, and
      Ozland was able to see parapets and gargoyles and towers jutting
      out of a medieval edifice. Coming out of a particular tower in the
      castle was a fork of what looked like frozen lightning. It looked
      almost like a wound in the air.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's that?" Ozland said, pointing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland pointed more accurately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's nothing to worry about."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure, but I'd like to know what it is, if it isn't any
      trouble."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's, ah, an aurora borealis. We get them in Hogwarts,
      sometimes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"During the daytime?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Just</em> near one of the castle's towers?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. They can be highly localised."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's none of my business, really," Flitwick said, after some
      time had passed, his eyes flitting back and forth from one window
      to another, "but would it be alright if I asked you what area your
      accidental magic ended up specialising in? It's purely out of
      personal interest."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, Penelope Clearwater – she graduated last year – can
      Silence the area around her. Althea Golledge can tell how long any
      given thing would take or last – she's in the Department of
      Mysteries, now, works in project management – although,
      chronomantic abilities are rather rare. It's fairly common with
      Muggleborns, or in your case, wizardborns who grew up in Muggle
      society – it usually develops in children after the age of eleven
      unless they go to Hogwarts, which acts as a magical outlet I
      suppose you could say."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't <em class="calibre8">specialise</em> in anything. Unless there's a
      common theme to levitating pencils and turning water into orange
      juice –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The carriage jolted, passing through an open window in the
      castle, and screeching as it flew through rows of corridors lined
      with knights and paintings.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"– is this safe?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I enchanted it myself," Flitwick said, sounding slightly
      hurt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland looked through the front window.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There isn't any cable in front of us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It makes new cable once it runs out," the professor replied, as
      if that was anywhere near a reassuring explanation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The carriage stopped outside an enormous, ugly stone griffin,
      guarding a spiral staircase.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The staircase stopped working since the man from the Office of
      Impossibility said it was impossible, so just walk right on up,"
      Flitwick said, tipping his pointed hat. "Cheerio, Ozland – good
      talking to you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland waved half-heartedly and paused in front of the gargoyle.
      After pacing back and forth in front of it, he realised he might as
      well try, since Flitwick's carriage had zoomed down the halls and
      nobody else was around. "I'm here to see Dumbledore," he said
      finally.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The griffin shuffled aside. Ozland began walking up the
      staircase, stopping at a towering door that visibly glistened and
      crackled with magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A painting of a pompous-looking, tiny-nosed man was fixed to the
      front. "Here to see Dumbledore?" it asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland froze. "Are you . . . <em class="calibre8">conscious</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I just have an infinite book tucked under my arm that tells
      me what to say given arbitrary input sentences from random
      strangers who come up to Dumbledore's door. Of course I'm
      conscious, you twat. Now, are you here to see Dumbledore or
      not?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm at Dumbledore's door, what do you think?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do <em class="calibre8">I</em> think?" scoffed the painting, clearly
      affronted. "What do I <em class="calibre8">think</em>? Clearly nothing, since my
      <em class="calibre8">pitiful, illegitimate</em> <em class="calibre8">consciousness</em> is smeared
      across a three-hundred-year-old canvas and mixed with egg whites.
      Go in, you bigoted clod – it's open."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland's first reaction was to threaten to pour acid onto it
      while it was sleeping (that is, if paintings even slept), but it
      occurred to him that it would be unwise to say this aloud, no less
      in front of the door to the Headmaster of the school he would be
      attending –</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Will I, though?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">To do anything else seemed to run against the logic of the
      universe. He'd gotten a strange letter from a secret society of
      wizards inviting him to attend a secret magic school, found out who
      his real parents were, gone shopping for his supplies . . . saying
      'no' after all of that and returning back to his life just didn't
      seem like an option.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Of course it's an option. Why wouldn't it be an option? Am I
      going to be ranking available options by narrative convenience
      now?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was an option, of course – a narratively-inconvenient option,
      perhaps, but an option nonetheless. But would he be
      <em class="calibre8">allowed</em> to choose it? Professor McGonagall had mentioned
      Memory Charms, the twins had talked at length about magical
      contracts, Ron had discussed the Imperius – the wizarding world
      seemed to explode with ways that a much more powerful, senior
      wizard could mess with his mind in unforeseen ways. And there had
      been <em class="calibre8">something</em> about a prophecy . . .</p>
      <p class="calibre6">George had warned him against going up against Time except on
      Sundays, and although he'd probably been joking, it was still good
      advice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The truth was, he felt a very deep <em class="calibre8">something</em> to the
      Celestian Unorthodox Church, and that something was like a
      fish-hook buried deep in his gut, except in a less painful way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Although, that considered, in the end, hitting the big red
      nuclear button and ditching the Church for Hogwarts would probably
      be better for his long-term mental health.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Internal monologue, eh?" said the painting, still looking
      rather malicious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Naturally, <em class="calibre8">I</em> don't experience internal monologue, or
      for that matter, <em class="calibre8">any</em> qualia because <em class="calibre8">I'm</em> just a
      good-for-nothing p-zombie, post-Classical slab of shi–"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland knocked politely and pushed open the door, which gave way
      with surprising ease.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore's office was what you'd expect of eight centuries of
      continuous habitation by eccentric old men – and lately, one
      <em class="calibre8">very</em> eccentric, <em class="calibre8">very</em> old man. The wallpaper was a
      faded indigo, but it had been unevenly wallpapered over with three
      other layers of wallpaper and then suffocated by hundreds of
      paintings of headmasters, most snoring, some talking silently to
      one another, a few making rude gestures at him. Tables from various
      eras had made the room their permanent residence, and housed an
      assortment of <em class="calibre8">things</em> – pointless, intricate little
      machines that made pointless, intricate sounds. Vellum-bound books
      cascaded from questionably-stable shelves. There were three doors
      in the room, one wedged beneath two paintings of pipes, one on the
      the roof, and one that Ozland's brain <em class="calibre8">insisted</em> was
      <em class="calibre8">definitely</em> in the room, but, as far as he could see,
      wasn't anywhere.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At the centre of the chaos was Dumbledore, who was smiling wanly
      at him with his half-moon glasses, ridiculous beard, and light
      purple robes – sitting at his desk, on top of which there was an
      open book with a gun-shaped hole cut into its pages, except the
      hole was pitch-black, and there was a little stepladder descending
      into it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, Ozland! Don't mind Rudolfus – he's weary of his
      dreadfully-prolonged, meaningless existence and only attempting to
      incite students to commit acts of violence against his person in an
      attempt to break up the tedium. But let it be known, he's very fun
      once the Butterbeer begins to flow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wouldn't it be more ethical to, you know, end his existence,
      then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unfortunately assisted painting-suicide is still outlawed by
      Ministry decree unless consent is given – otherwise it would be
      considered murder," said Dumbledore, gravely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So if he consents to – "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Ministry considers paintings to be non-conscious simulacra,
      incapable of giving meaningful consent." He threw up his hands.
      "The world is a mad, mad place, Ozland. But I digress – it is too
      common an affliction among us youthful old men to stride off the
      beaten conversational path and into the forests of the night –
      would you care to take a seat? Ah, the red chesterfield, an
      excellent choice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland couldn't help but stare at the book-hole. "Professor
      Flitwick said something about lodging arrangements?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed. Professor Mogpipe who teaches Eighth Year Magical
      Maintenance, was walking down the third floor corridor not so long
      ago, considering the issue of your far-awayness from Britain having
      been prompted by myself, and by fortunate happenstance, found a
      room which should accommodate you for the five days up to the
      beginning of the school term." The indecision must have been plain
      on his face, for Dumbledore frowned. "You have obligations at home.
      How utterly inconsiderate of me to make such an imposition."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland rubbed his eyes. "No, it's fine. When I first, you know,
      grasped the whole <em class="calibre8">scope</em> of what was going on, how isolated
      everything was – I mean, it's literally the other side of the
      world, I couldn't be further away from New Zealand – I thought I
      could just, well, I'm not sure, maybe I could rent an apartment or
      bunk up in one of the Weasleys' spare rooms. I could learn magic at
      Hogwarts and just have nothing I needed to do." He yawned. The
      Wakefulness-whatever-it-was was wearing off, apparently. "That
      sounded really great at first, but then, well, what would I be
      doing it for? What would I be going to Hogwarts <em class="calibre8">for?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To make new friends and devote yourself to the study of the
      arcane arts?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He paused. "Well, actually those would be some good reasons to
      go to Hogwarts. But people need me back home and I can't just
      disappear one night and never see them again. Besides the fact that
      it would start a civil war and probably end in a nuclear exchange
      covering Australasia. But it would still be hard," he waved his
      hands about helplessly, "knowing all of this exists."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore leaned forward. "Perhaps I can make the decision
      easier for you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you do not attend Hogwarts, you will explode."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing was said for a few seconds and then –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Literally?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore tilted his glasses. "Literally."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">How? Why?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ozland," the ancient, yet 20s-something-looking wizard boomed,
      "every time you become truly – and I mean <em class="calibre8">truly</em> – angry,
      you roll the dice, so to speak. Your magic is untamed,
      uncontrolled, uncontroll<em class="calibre8">able</em> – unless you receive a formal
      education, taxing your brains, straining your magic, and draining
      out your emotions on a regular basis. Have you heard of spontaneous
      combustion?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Need I say more?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Shit</em>. Uh, sorry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No need to apologise, Ozland," Dumbledore said, "we
      <em class="calibre8">are</em> all powerful wizards and we <em class="calibre8">are</em> all under
      fifty-six privacy Charms, so feel free to cuss like a drunken
      sailor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" . . . that whole exploding thing <em class="calibre8">really, really</em> did
      not make it easier to decide, just so you know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That should present no issue," said Dumbledore, unsheathing his
      wand. "Because, of course –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">HE'S GOING TO MEMORY-CHARM YOU, screamed a voice in his
      head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland jumped out of the chair, his eyes wide.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" – we can simply cast the Ritual of the Cubic Day. Ozland?"
      Dumbledore looked puzzled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He sat back down again, thoroughly ashamed. "I thought you were
      going to Memory Charm me, or force me into a magical contract, or
      something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," said Dumbledore, looking disappointed, "you have read
      Skeeter's account of the War, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore flicked his wand, and a book whipped out from the
      shelf and into his hand. "Rita Skeeter wrote this . . . dramatised
      account of the War. Most of it was received in poor taste, but I'm
      told it leaves the reader with an impression of me as a
      manipulative, condescending, doddering old man who has a rather
      derivative fondness for Memory Charms."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I haven't read it. Why don't you just have her killed if it's
      such an issue?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come again?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or frame her for something and get her locked up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Chief Warlock seemed disturbed by the idea. "Is that
      standard political practice in New Zealand?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That there was any other form of political practice for
      dissidents hadn't occurred to him. "Ye-es."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ozland," Dumbledore drummed his fingers on the wooden surface
      of the table, "I am not the kind to so lightly commit an act as
      vile as murder, nor to condemn a woman, innocent of all crimes, but
      the non-crime of offending the critical sensibilities of a powerful
      man, to the Dementors of Azkaban. But that aside, were Lucius to,
      on hearing the news of Rita Skeeter's demise, realise that the
      informal rules of proper conduct had been fundamentally altered –
      that every journalist who penned an unflattering article, every
      writer with an inflammatory passage, every author whose depiction
      of his character was to him unbecoming, was game – would he not
      respond in kind with the means at his disposal, extenuating the
      bloodshed beyond my original intentions, were they murderous? Or
      perhaps, it is the press that you ought to imagine – one of their
      own kind locked away, a woman who knew no boundaries when it came
      to levying criticism at the wealthy and ennobled, to airing
      secrets, whether real or imagined, to the British public? Would
      they hesitate for a second longer before unveiling corruption and
      bringing the guilty, those untouchable by the courts, to justice?
      Would they, in their minds contemplating the Dementors, shelve
      criticism and put a halt to affronting the well-connected?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good point," Ozland conceded. <em class="calibre8">If he came up with that on
      the spot, that was impressive</em>. "Um, I think we've wandered
      off-topic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore brought out a notebook and flipped through it. "I
      make sure to dispense at least three pieces of wisdom with every
      conversation. Ah, yes. The Ritual of the Cubic Day will, in the
      words of its inventor, split your mind-essence across the two faces
      of the Time Cube, allowing you to experience two days for each day
      that passes in two different countries. It is very rarely
      conducted."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because it doesn't make any sense?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because the ritual is rather messily structured and my
      colleagues in the Cyprian Institute believe that it could be
      simplified along Modernist lines. Eugenray was a devout adherent to
      the Multimodalist school of ritual theory, which has since come out
      of fashion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wouldn't it also create . . . internal consistency issues?"
      asked Ozland, skeptically. "You know, all of the usual guff with
      time travel. Say I wake up in New Zealand, hear on the news a bomb
      went off in the Underground, go to sleep, wake up in Britain which
      is, what, twelve hours behind – you know what I mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore nodded. "Internal consistency issues, as a general
      principle, can be avoided by minimising forward-backward
      information flow, as the chronomancers call it. Hogwarts, I would
      think, would be sufficiently informationally-insulated from New
      Zealand, hence why the ritual came to mind."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what's the catch?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A sleepless night would be a paradox, which could only be
      resolved through your death. However, that possibility can be
      prevented through familiarity with sleeping Charms, or with a
      specialised device, which, should you choose to perform the ritual,
      Professor Snape will obtain for you. The ritual also demands the
      fingernail from the thumb of your left-hand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, let's do this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excellent. First, we will have to find our way to the
      International Date Line over the Pacific Ocean."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Great, what <em class="calibre8">wacky</em> mode of transportation are we going
      to use <em class="calibre8">this</em> – "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore snapped his fingers, and they were suddenly hovering
      over the ocean under a night sky.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland panicked, seeing the waves crashing beneath him. He
      tapped his foot, feeling an invisible surface below him that kept
      him from falling into the water. Wind rushed through his hair.
      "I'll be able to do that finger-snapping teleportation thing one
      day, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore laughed loudly, seeming to find his question
      uproariously funny, before becoming serious. "The Ritual of the
      Cubic Day," he said, "transports your mind-essence to your golem
      body in the instant following its completion – in your case, to New
      Zealand a few hours <em class="calibre8">from</em> now – so before we begin, there
      are things you must know sooner than later."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm listening."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The agenda for tomorrow. Or, from your perspective, yesterday.
      First, Professor Trelawney will assess your career options. Second,
      there will be the customary meeting with the other new
      non-First-Year students. That is all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, noted."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, this ritual is very clever, is filled with subtle
      references to many different works of fiction, contains three koans
      in Pig Latin, and is also a palindrome, so it would be advisable
      for you to listen very carefully to appreciate it fully."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Luna's exposition</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">London Evening Herald</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"WORST GANG VIOLENCE IN TWENTY YEARS":</p>
      <p class="calibre6">DEATH-COUNT IN NEW ZEALAND "HOLY WAR" REACHES 1,380</p>
      <p class="calibre6">[...] called a "blessed child" by the self-declared St.
      Matchwell, Cunningham was not available to comment [...]</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">The Observatory</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">OPINION: INTERVENTION IS NEEDED IN NZ</p>
      <p class="calibre6">[...] the New Zealand branch of the Celestian Unorthodox Church
      has been described variously as a cult, a government, a gang, a
      criminal syndicate, a political party, and a private militia [...]
      supported by a patchwork alliance – Tip Top Ice Cream Ltd., Four
      Star Hotels, and the Nisango – and, our source says, is largely
      controlled by Rushabh (Jupiter-Minister of the New Zealand branch
      of the C.U.C), a warlord who threatened to detonate a nuclear
      device to ascend to power, Ozland Cunningham (Mars-Minister of
      General Affairs), an unknown who entered the upper echelons of the
      C.U.C after the 1991 Holy War, Evelyn Rawter (Mars-Minister of
      Propaganda and Public Relations), the daughter of St. Matchwell who
      is in formal command of the New Zealand branch of the C.U.C, and
      Donovan Yu (Mars-Minister of Justice &amp; Defense), the alienated
      son of Four Star Hotels' CEO and the commander of FSH's militia in
      the region.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">26 AUGUST – INCORPORATED TERRITORY OF THE CELESTIAN UNORTHODOX
      CHURCH, AUCKLAND, NEW ZEALAND</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland woke up on his couch to someone banging on the door.
      <em class="calibre8">And he woke up, and it was all a dream</em>, he thought.
      <em class="calibre8">And wow, that was an amazingly cleverly-written
      ritual</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The banging persisted, rattling windows.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Jesus, I'm coming!" he shouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He reached the door in a record five seconds and swung it wide
      open.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was Evelyn, standing there with the bright blue dress and
      flowery hat she used for formal occasions. Ozland thought it made
      her look like a visiting royal, which was probably the intended
      effect. "Where the <em class="calibre8">fuck</em> have you been and why haven't you
      responded my – <em class="calibre8">wow</em>, you look awful."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well I'm <em class="calibre8">sorry</em>, Ev, but having one of my best mates
      suddenly suicide on me made me want a night to myself with a couple
      of beers," he said, feeling immensely guilty at the lie.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well <em class="calibre8">I'm</em> sorry, Oz, since I've been trying to fucking
      reach you for the last five hours to tell you someone leaked
      Rushabh's suicide to the press before we could set up the official
      story and that, in accordance with time-honoured tradition, his
      fucking <em class="calibre8">Unsealing Ceremony</em>, you know, the one where they
      read out his successor for the position of <em class="calibre8">Jupiter-Minister of
      the whole of New Zealand</em>, is happening in Gordon Coates in
      twenty minutes and we're on the fucking guest-list."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," said Ozland.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Evelyn. "I thought you might say something like
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">19 HAMPSTEAD ROAD, HAMPSTEAD GARDEN SUBURB, HEATHGATE, LONDON –
      OCTOBER 2, 1991 – ABOUT FOUR YEARS AGO</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">One thousand soldiers face an advancing mob,
      resolute.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">A bottle spirals, turns three times, and shatters.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">In a second, gunfire fills the air.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Blood spills out in litres, and someone screams a –</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione had faked a cold. She'd never done it before, so she'd
      gotten away with it. She was a pattern, and her parents were
      patterns, and they had a pattern inside them that told them how her
      pattern was supposed to go, and she had broken the pattern, so
      she'd gotten away with it. Jessica had come down with a cold, and
      Hermione remembered the cold-pattern, so when she woke up that
      morning she reproduced the cold-pattern and her parents reproduced
      the worried-parent-pattern and checked her temperature and said
      they would call the doctor and made her a mug of cocoa and told her
      to lie down, all according to the worried-parent-pattern. By nine
      o'clock, her parents were gone according to their schedule-pattern,
      and she began thinking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She began thinking about Negaloth's pattern, and how she could
      disrupt it. She began thinking about tall skyscrapers and the
      economy and people in business-suits running to and fro and –</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">This isn't healthy</em>, said a little voice in her
      head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She responded to that little voice, saying that health was just
      a pattern but she was different because she controlled her own
      pattern. Not many people controlled their own patterns and when
      they did, they were considered unhealthy by normal-patterned people
      – so there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">May 7 was a pattern. May 7 was a recurring calendar date, and
      May 7 was a recurring memory. She kept remembering May 7 and
      remembering it again, but now she controlled her own pattern, so
      she didn't have to remember it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was reading 'The Depression and the Rise of the All-American
      Oligarchy' when there came a knock on the door. The postman was
      there, and the postman had a package. The package was for her. She
      opened up the package with scissor-blades, and inside the package
      were hundreds of black cassette tapes, all numbered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now this was a mystery.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She went up to her room, and put the first cassette into her
      cassette-player, and put the cassette-player on her nightstand, and
      listened. At first, there was an anti-hiss of silence, and then
      there was a low voice. "Hermione," it said, without inflection, so
      soft, so neutral that it verged on sinister. "Please, listen very
      closely."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her palms began to sweat. She had the sudden, nauseating feeling
      that everything up until that moment had been a mechanical dream.
      She'd reduced her world to patterns, and forgotten that it was
      real.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am going to talk to you, and you can talk back to me, because
      I know what you will say. When I say 'end recording', you need to
      press the stop button. If I tell you not to play the tape for a
      certain period of time – a day, a week, a month – that's what you
      need to do. You can only talk after I say 'end recording'. End
      recording."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She obediently reached forward, pushing the stop button. "Who
      are you?" she asked aloud, suddenly feeling very vulnerable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Play. "I'll give you a clue. You watched part of a documentary
      on me on the BBC yesterday. End recording." Stop.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She rolled a pair of dice on her nightstand. "What did I just
      do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Play. "You tried to test the outer limits of my predictive
      capabilities by rolling a pair of dice. Two and six. But enough of
      this, you must know who I am now. Any questions? End recording."
      Stop.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione bit her lip. "What do you want, Bolshoy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Play. "Melodramatic, but pointed," went the voice, as if it were
      commenting on a half-decent TV drama. "Every thought leaves a
      subtle dent on the world, Hermione – every significant choice,
      every unspoken word. I can tell you what Anita was thinking, as the
      bullets passed through her body. I can tell you what emotions
      flashed through her brain as she bled to death on the stones of
      Trafalgar Square. Pain, of course – long, long, pain. But as her
      lungs exhaled for the last time, a dent was made in the world – the
      dent of a powerful thought. The powerful thought was her
      realisation, in her dying moments, that Hermione, her closest
      friend, had seen her, and that Hermione would avenge her. The
      future is not certain – even the brightest outlines are blurred,
      but I know enough to tell you this, Hermione: your vengeance is
      justified, and moreover, it is <em class="calibre8">right</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The voice slowed. "If you give me the opportunity to help you, I
      will. I will not take over your project, as it were – it is yours,
      and yours alone. I can offer you guidance – moral or scientific –
      connections from Britain and beyond, and resources in abundance.
      Evidently I have planned in advance, hence the additional cassette
      tapes. I want you to think today about my offer, and remember this:
      Negaloth has sacrificed millions at the altar of the temple of
      profit. To those millions suffering at its leisure, a strike
      against Negaloth would be a sign that there is justice in the
      universe, and that they can wield it. There are very few people in
      Britain who can do what you <em class="calibre8">could</em> do, Hermione, and they
      are fewer by the day. End recording."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Stop.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd have to be a real dunce not to accept your help, wouldn't
      I? Count me in."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Play. "Excellent. Now, listen very, very closely."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#######</strong></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
