<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>46. Significant Digits pt2 - Significant Digits Chapter 38: Walpurgisnacht, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="46. Significant Digits pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s10" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 38: Walpurgisnacht</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">JUPITER: Je dirais donc: "Jeune homme, allez-vous-en! Que
      cherchez-vous ici? Vous voulez faire valoir vos droits? Eh! vous
      êtes ardent et fort, vous feriez un brave capitaine dans une armée
      bien batailleuse, vous avez mieux à faire qu'à régner sur une ville
      à demi morte, une charogne de ville tourmentée par les mouches. Les
      gens d'ici sont de grands pécheurs, mais voici qu'ils se sont
      engagés dans la voie du rachat. Laissez-les, jeune homme,
      laissez-les, respectez leur douloureuse enterprise, éloignez-vous
      sur la pointe des pieds. … Et que leur donnerez-vous en échange?
      Des digestions tranquilles, la paix morose des provinces et
      l'ennui, ah! l'ennui si quotidien du bonheur. Bon voyage, jeune
      homme, bon voyage; l'ordre d'une cité et l'ordre des âmes sont
      instables: si vous y touchez, vous provoquerez une
      catastrophe.</em> (Le regardent dans les yeux.) <em class="calibre7">Une terrible
      catastrophe qui retombera sur vous.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">ZEUS: Well, I'd say something like this. "My lad, get you
      gone! What business have</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">you here? Do you wish to enforce your rights? Yes, you're
      brave and strong and spirited. I can</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">see you as a captain in an army of good fighters. You have
      better things to do than reigning over a dead-and-alive city, a
      carrion city plagued by flies. These people are great sinners but,
      as you see, they're working out their atonement. Let them be, young
      fellow, let them be; respect their sorrowful endeavor, and begone
      on tiptoe. ... What, moreover, could you give</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">them in exchange? Good digestions, the gray monotony of
      provincial life, and the boredom —</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">ah, the soul-destroying boredom — of long days of mild
      content. Go your way, my lad, go your</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">way. The repose of cities and men's souls hangs on a thread;
      tamper with it and you bring</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">disaster.</em> (Looking him in the eyes.) <em class="calibre7">A disaster
      which will recoil on you.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">-</em>Les Mouches<em class="calibre7">, Jean-Paul Sartre</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">April 30th, 1999</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">John Snow Center for Medicine and Tower School of Doubt (The
      Tower)</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Now</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry snapped his fingers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To his left, through the open door back into the Establishment,
      he could hear several people gasp at the gesture - those who knew
      the legend. But in front of him, the two iterations of Bellatrix
      Black only stared at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What was that, little man? Another ultimate weapon?" asked the
      one on the left, her voice mocking. Her right eye was only a torn
      nugget of ruined red flesh, bloody on her cheek, but it didn't seem
      to bother her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In spite of himself and in spite of everything, Harry felt a mad
      giggle rising. He fought it back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," he said. "Yes, you could say that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Empty Fort," the two witches said, almost in unison. An
      identical expression of contemptuous glee was spreading on each of
      their faces.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where is the Dark Lord?" asked the one on the right. They
      raised their wands again, pointing them at Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Muffliato</em>," said Harry, for some semblance of privacy,
      "I cut off his hands and wiped his memory and turned him into a
      rock. But I was worried that wasn't enough after it almost went
      wrong, and so I ripped his mind out of his body and imprisoned it
      in a fungus that I keep inside of a fancy box." He paused. "Did you
      want the box? I can have it gift-wrapped, I suppose."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stalling billy dolly," said the one on the right, sneering. She
      cocked her head to the side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Twist a while and you'll tell a truer tale," said the other.
      Her tongue poked out of her mouth, pinkish and crude, and licked
      blood from her upper lip.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From the corner of his eye, Harry could see movement. He raised
      his left hand sharply, to signal whoever it was to stop.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, that's the truth, actually," he said, calmly. "But I will
      trade you an even better one, if you answer a question of mine." He
      had many, actually. <em class="calibre7">What is that duplication spell? Did
      Voldemort know it? It duplicated your arm - could it duplicate any
      artifact? Is the ritual sacrifice permanent, or can you heal that
      eye later?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Bellatrix on the right giggled. "No time, billy. Bumbling
      bungling billy. I'm heavy with the milk of your death." Then the
      levity vanished from her face, suddenly and completely, and her
      lips tightened. "Twist."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Crucio</em>," cast the other.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And there was pain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">ORESTE: Il y a des hommes qui naissent engagés: ils n'ont
      pas le choix, on les a jetés sur un chemin, au bout du chemin il y
      a un acte qui les attend,</em> leur <em class="calibre7">acte; ils vont, et leurs
      pieds nus pressent fortement la terre et s'écorchent aux cailloux.
      Ça te paraît vulgaire, à toi, la joie d'aller</em> quelque part?
      <em class="calibre7">Et il y en a d'autres, des silencieux, qui sentant au fond de
      leur cœur le poids d'images troubles et terrestres; leur vie a été
      changée parce que, un jour de leur enfance, à cinq ans, à sept ans…
      C'est bon: ce ne sont pas des hommes supérieurs. Je savais déjà,
      moi, à sept ans, que j'étais exilé; les odeurs et les sons, le
      bruit de la pluie sur les toits, les tremblements de la lumière, je
      les laissais glisser le long de mon corps et tomber autour de moi;
      je savais ui'ils appartenaient aux autres, et que je ne pourrais
      jamais en faire</em> mes <em class="calibre7">souvenirs. Car les souvenirs sont de
      grasses nourritures pour ceux qui possèdent les maisons, les bêtes,
      les domestiques et les champs.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">ORESTES: Some men are born bespoken; a certain path has been
      assigned them, and at its end there is something they must do, a
      deed</em> allotted<em class="calibre7">. So on and on they trudge, wounding their
      bare feet on the flints. I suppose that strikes you as vulgar—the
      joy of going</em> somewhere definite<em class="calibre7">. And there are others, men
      of few words, who bear deep down in their hearts a load of dark
      imaginings; men whose whole life was changed because one day in
      childhood, at the age of five or seven— Right; I grant you these
      are no great men. When I was seven, I know I had no home, no roots.
      I let sounds and scents, the patter of rain on housetops, the
      golden play of sunbeams, slip past my body and fall round me—and I
      knew these were for others, I could never make them</em> my
      <em class="calibre7">memories. For memories are luxuries reserved for people who own
      houses, cattle, fields, and servants.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">-</em>Les Mouches<em class="calibre7">, Jean-Paul Sartre</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">April 30th, 1993</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Office of Harry Potter-Evans-Verres, Hogwarts,
      Scotland</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Six years ago</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It had been difficult to visit his parents, as always. It wasn't
      that it made him unhappy, exactly, or even that it was
      uncomfortable. It was the sense of loss that bothered him, waiting
      in the wings.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was always a huge amount of things to talk about. Mum
      would always ask after Hermione and Draco and Minerva, although she
      didn't want to hear about the "politics" or the "magical things,"
      but about how Minerva and Draco were coping with their losses, or
      about how Hermione was doing so much better these days. She'd met
      Granville, Hermione's phoenix, at Christmastime, and had been so
      charmed that she'd been rendered speechless. Granville had given
      her a feather, and Mum kept it on her vanity mirror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dad had his own interests and endless suggestions. He made
      spirited attempts to talk about magic, but really the possibility
      of reforming a society was what he always wanted to talk about,
      sitting down with Harry at the kitchen table for long chats. They'd
      both read their Heinlein, Asimov, Gibson, Stephenson… they would
      sit down after dinner and debate possible routes for a future
      society for hours, talking until their tea was cold and the rest of
      the world was asleep. How could you intelligently plan for a world
      of eternal youth, with no disease or poverty? What steps did you
      need to take now, and in what order? Harry had the sense that his
      father thought the entire thing was still a bit unreal, and that
      Harry might be exaggerating his own role in the world these days…
      but what Oxford liberal sci-fi fan could resist the opportunity to
      talk about the way a society <em class="calibre7">should</em> be run - a potential
      Church of All Worlds, or Foundation, or Freeside, or Neo-Victorian
      England, depending on the choices they made?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His father had paused at one point, last night, to marvel at
      that. "Do you really think you're capable of making these
      decisions, son? Do you think anyone could make them in your place?
      Account for every possibility and plan out an entire civilization?"
      A pause. "Does anyone even have the right to try?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If I could leave it up to the wisdom of crowds and market
      forces, I would," Harry had replied, staring at the kitchen table.
      "I can't, and there's no one else to take my place. I have my
      Fellowship, and I'm not going to refuse the Ring just because it
      seems impossible or arrogant. I have to try."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His father was thoughtful for a quiet moment, and then smiled.
      "Does that make me Elrond?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had rolled his eyes, even as his heart answered,
      <em class="calibre7">Yes.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">But through all of his visits, Harry knew - even if they didn't
      - that he was going to have to stop coming to visit. Not forever -
      not on the scale at which mankind would be operating soon, an
      unlimited life of unlimited possibility - but for a long time.
      Already, he'd been coming to visit less often. Soon, he was going
      to have to ask them to come visit him, instead. And eventually,
      he'd need to resign himself to letters. He probably should already
      have done that for their own safety, if for no other reason. They
      were risking an eternity of life and he was risking the fate of the
      world every time he had contact. Harry had needed to think about
      the possibilities (never refuse to think about something, not even
      once), but he didn't like to dwell on them. Kidnapping, blackmail,
      torture… it was the fate of the world and the species in the
      balance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So ever since Harry had returned to Hogwarts, massive defense
      force and five decoys going along for the ride, he'd been quiet.
      He'd spoken to Minerva and given her word from his parents, and
      then gone straight up to his office through the twisting corridors
      and up the moving stairs, and when he got there he'd exchanged only
      the barest of pleasantries with Hermione while getting the Stone
      back from her and destroying his facsimile. Harry hadn't been
      unfriendly, but he didn't feel like he had the emotional energy to
      discuss his feelings, so he'd kept some distance. He got to work on
      that day's patients as they were cleared and escorted by the
      aurors, and stayed quiet and polite and distant.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Draco had gotten there, he'd taken in the look on Harry's
      face at a glance, and hadn't said much more than good morning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The first two patients of the day had been easy enough. The
      first, an older man, had needed his right arm healed from the long
      and painful twisting that had come from a curse in his younger
      days. Certain curses were beyond the power of healing spells -
      indeed, sometimes that was their whole point - and it had been a
      wonderful thing to see the look on the man's face as his pain faded
      away for the first time in thirty years. The man had moved and
      flexed the hand that had been frozen into a claw for decades, and
      eventually had begun to weep. Harry had accepted his thanks,
      refused his money, and sent him on his way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The second patient was even easier: a child born with a chronic
      seizure disorder. Potions could keep it in check, such as the
      Caesarian Draught (a potion which had nothing to do with
      obstetrics, Harry had discovered after one amusing
      misunderstanding), but that was ruinously expensive. Even taking
      extraordinary care, it had been easy for Harry to repair the
      lesions on the child's brain. Unfortunately, he hadn't been able to
      figure out the cause; the shapes of the lesions, as best he could
      tell, didn't really point to any specific pathology. Harry had made
      notes and consulted a manual on differential diagnosis of atypical
      neural lesions, but had needed to chalk it up to hydrocephaly at
      the moment and put off further research until later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He thought he'd have time to dig into it that afternoon. The
      aurors were slow to vet potential patients, much to Harry's
      frustration, and despite his wish to scale things up, he probably
      wouldn't get to see many more than twelve patients that day. He
      needed to bring on more healers and more aurors, or work out a
      different system.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was ready when the two aurors escorted in a third patient.
      It was another older man, and it looked like another easy case. The
      man had terrible burn scars on the lower part of his face, covering
      his chin and one of his cheeks with pale, knotted tissue. The man's
      eyes were wide, staring around with obvious alarm. It wasn't
      uncommon. Across the room, for example, Hermione was healing
      someone who'd come in so terrified they were outright sobbing. It
      soon passed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, <em class="calibre7">usually</em> it soon passed. Harry glanced at the
      corner, where a short brunette woman was sitting quietly, her hands
      folded in her lap, her eyes vacant. One of the rescues from Azkaban
      - a French woman named Charlevoix. She, too, had been rescued from
      pain, only to remain in a state of near-catatonia. She broke out
      into screams if she was separated from Hermione. They let her
      stay.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello, sir," Harry said. He tried to make his voice warm, and
      mustered up a smile. "Just lie down on the bed, there, if you don't
      mind. There's nothing to worry about… you're going to feel a lot
      better, very soon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old man lay down without protest, gingerly reclining on the
      bed. Harry sat in a chair next to it. He lay his wand on his lap.
      The man was frightened. "Are you all right, sir? Nervous?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced at the aurors who escorted the man. One of them
      shrugged - nothing to contribute. They stood silently at the foot
      of the bed: an obvious presence of force. It was just a precaution,
      as were the twelve other aurors in the room. Everyone was carefully
      screened and had to submit to Veritaserum before they were
      permitted to receive healing, and before entering they were
      disenchanted and dispelled and everything else an auror could do.
      Precaution was taken against Imperius and Confundus… even against
      false or locked memories. There were traps and wards and yet more
      traps, and outside assault was as impossible as they could make
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I… I don't… I'm sorry," murmured the patient with a quavering
      voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For what?" Harry asked, smiling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I came for… for my face and chest. All burnt, long ago. I'd
      forgotten…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry made the connection. "You'd locked away the memory of how
      it happened?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not me. St. Mungo's. They'd had to… I couldn't... I…" The man's
      face twisted, stiff flesh on his chin rippling, and he clenched his
      eyes shut. Tears began to roll down his cheeks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry you lost that protection," Harry said, gently. "We
      can help you with that again, if you want. Or we can put you in
      touch with someone we work with… a type of special healer who helps
      people with problems that they can't face and don't want to
      forget."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The boy… my boy," gasped the man. Harry just sat quietly. There
      was nothing he could say - he needed to just let the man take a
      moment to work through whatever had happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Th- There was a fire…" said the man, haltingly. "My fault. I
      wanted… I'm Salvation Starr, maybe you've… I am a pyromancer. There
      is none greater in Britain." Harry hadn't heard of the man, but
      that wasn't that surprising. Despite everything that had happened,
      he'd only learned about magic itself two years ago. There was still
      a lot of common knowledge that had escaped him, and there were
      famous magical researchers that he'd never heard of, Chocolate Frog
      card or no. Harry glanced at one of the aurors again, and the auror
      nodded in confirmation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The patient raised his arms up, and hugged himself. He turned
      onto his side, away from Harry. "So many have been hurt. I myself…
      There was a fire. There was a terrible fire. I wanted to find a
      barrier against all flame. Ever since the fall of Sontag… I wanted
      to find a way to stop it… stop such a fire-" The man stopped
      speaking, his voice strangled away into a pained squeak by his
      grief.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"An accident? With your research?" Harry said, gently. The
      wizarding settlement of Sontag had been burned in the second goblin
      rebellion of 1612. It had been long-abandoned by that time - making
      its destruction more of a threat than a real attack - but it had
      still been considered a tragedy. None of the wizards present then
      had been able to extinguish the magical flames the goblins had
      wielded against Sontag, and the incident was always described in
      history books with an ominous tone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My boy… he…" Salvation's shoulders shook, and he lapsed back
      into silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sir…you had a son, sir?" said the other auror. He sounded
      surprised - that must not have turned up in their investigation.
      <em class="calibre7">Usually they were so careful… so slow that I have been</em>
      complaining <em class="calibre7">about it.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The first auror asked, "Are you quite sure that-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not my child," said the man, his voice thick. "My nephew. A
      Muggle. But he was like my child. I loved him like my child. My
      boy. My boy..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The auror nodded slowly. "Yes, sir."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm so sorry, sir," said Harry. He stood up, as quietly as he
      could. "We're going to have you back another day, I think,
      sir."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salvation rolled back over, suddenly, and snatched at the hem of
      Harry's sleeve with a desperate hand. The aurors drew their wands
      so quickly that Harry barely even saw them move, but didn't
      intervene.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait!" said Salvation, his voice harsh. He slid his legs to the
      side and sat up on the bed, not letting go of Harry. "You're the
      Boy-Who-Lived. You can… I know you can…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't bring back the dead, sir. I'm so sorry, but I can't…"
      <em class="calibre7">Not yet</em>, thought Harry, looking over at Draco, who was
      sitting with Hermione at the other end of the room, helping her
      with her patient. <em class="calibre7">But I will. I have promises to keep. I
      will.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked back down at the patient. "I'm so sorry, but I can't
      bring him back. I <em class="calibre7">wish</em> I could, believe me I do, but I
      can't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He would stay with me, sometimes. I had a room for him. He
      loved dragons. Always loved dragons. I used Welsh Greens,
      sometimes, and he would sit behind the wards and stare for hours at
      them. Big posters of dragons all over the walls. Wanted to see a
      Chinese Fireball, one day," husked Salvation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't know he was in the house... I didn't know he was in
      the house… I would never have been experimenting if I'd known they
      were going to come early. My sister and my boy… The cursed fire, I
      thought I could stop it with my new ward. I thought I had it. I
      never would have… I didn't know..." The man's voice broke into a
      sob. Then it cut off, and his eyes fixed themselves on Harry again,
      coming back from some far-off place of grief and regret. "Bring
      back my boy. I know things… I went far abroad when I was young. I
      know how to do things. I have many things. You can have all my
      knowledge, everything I have. Bring back my boy. Bring back
      Davey."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head again. This had gone on long enough, and
      even though it seemed cruel, he needed to defuse the situation
      before it got out of hand. "I'm sorry, sir."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He raised one hand to give a signal to the aurors, but paused,
      staring past them at the entrance to his office, where a piece of
      parchment folded into an airplane had just glided into the room. It
      was one of the memos they used at the Ministry of Magic, lazily
      propelling itself with slow flaps of papery wings.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bring back my boy," said Salvatore again, more quietly.
      "Please… I'm begging you. I know you have the power. I have much to
      offer. Old rituals and ancient spells, long forgotten by all
      others. I have sacrificed much to gain them - done grim things for
      grim people - but I will give them over to you. I have been to the
      nave of Beatus Payens and I have been to the land of the Tuatha… I
      have traded power for power, to learn all I could of flame and
      fire. You can have all that I know. Every rune in my books. Every
      bit of flame. Please… you must. I didn't… oh Merlin… I didn't know
      he was there, he was an innocent, don't you see, I didn't know he
      was there. Bring him back." He steadied himself. "You must, Harry
      Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The aurors were moving on their own account, and one of them
      came to Salvatore's elbow. "Master Starr," he said, gently. Harry
      pulled away from the patient. Salvatore didn't resist, but didn't
      let go; his hand remained suspended in the air, clutching at
      nothing as Harry's sleeve left his grip.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Please, sir," said Salvatore, but the emotion had left his
      voice. It sounded flat and full of sadness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stepped towards the memo, which was sailing along
      sedately, and held out his hand. The parchment plane landed on his
      palm. Behind him, the auror helped Salvatore to his feet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Harry opened the parchment, he found that it really was a
      standard Ministry memo, sealed and embossed in the normal way. But
      it was a very long way from home. The seal was cracked in the
      middle, and the rest of the memo was creased into squares and
      crinkled with two parallel lines: the thing had been folded up and
      sent here by owl. Harry opened it, frowning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The top few inches of a newspaper had been pasted to the
      parchment: that evening's edition of <em class="calibre7">The Daily Prophet.</em>
      There was no time marking, but it was only the early afternoon -
      this was a message from the future. At least four hours, but
      perhaps as far as six.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">TRAGEDY: POTTER ATTACKED, CLINIC RAZED</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Why send only this?</em> Harry thought. But there was no
      time to think it through. When given an anonymous warning, the
      course was clear (or at least, seemed obvious enough to Harry):
      react quickly, but in an unorthodox way. He couldn't ignore the
      message, especially since it might have come from the future, but
      if you reacted predictably to an anonymous warning, then you were
      only granting your enemy the power to control you.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's thoughts moved in a flash. <em class="calibre7">First-level response,
      standard lockdown. Vulnerable to specific kinds of attacks. Obvious
      alternative - evacuation - has the same problem. Brief message and
      unorthodox delivery style that bypassed other viewers… points to
      some betrayal or widespread attack… an owl takes twelve minutes to
      get here from the Ministry… an ally there, betraying a conspiracy?
      Why anonymous? Warning was sent from as far as six hours in the
      future… a message there, clearly. The attack will happen within the
      next six hours… it will do serious damage, but since this message
      was sent, we have the power to mitigate or change that.</em> Still,
      though, the first question was dragging on his thoughts, demanding
      attention: <em class="calibre7">If you're going to help, why send only this? Is the
      future outcome - the alternative that prompted the message - so
      terrible that you don't want it known?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You <em class="calibre7">must</em>," said Salvatore from behind him, raising his
      voice again. Hermione and Draco were looking over in alarm, now,
      and the pair of aurors with their patient and the ones at the door
      had drawn their wands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry Potter, I <em class="calibre7">demand</em> it. He <em class="calibre7">cannot</em> remain
      gone - remain burned." Salvatore's voice cracked at the last word.
      "You <em class="calibre7">will</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And with a sinking feeling in his stomach, Harry realized
      another possible reason for the message.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Sabotage from the future. Information cannot go any further
      than six hours back in time. So right now, at this moment, we can't
      go back and prevent-</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You <em class="calibre7">will!"</em> said Salvatore again, and Harry hadn't even
      turned around before he felt the bloom of heat on his back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">This is an insane thing you're trying, boy,"</em> Moody had
      said to them, last year. <em class="calibre7">"There's too much evil and too much
      madness in the world. Too much damn randomness. You can't account
      for everything. We can test the people who visit, but any security
      system in any fortress is based on keeping people out. It's not
      like in the Muggle world. A Muggle without a weapon is about as
      dangerous as a dog. A powerful wizard without a wand, on the other
      hand, could be tasting your blood within minutes. You can't secure
      your most important assets - you, the Stone, Voldie - if you also
      need to allow open access to them. It's an impossible
      problem."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">That just means that no one has ever been prepared or
      paranoid or clever enough,"</em> Harry had replied, with far too
      much self-assurance. <em class="calibre7">"No problem is impossible."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Immobi</em>nnghhh," Harry heard one auror say, the spell
      cut off in a grunt of pain, an instant before he felt an sweeping
      force pluck his legs out from underneath him and lift him into the
      air, like the scooping palm of a gentle giant. He was hurled across
      the room in a tumble, the world spinning around him in a confusion
      of red and grey, before hitting the opposite wall hard enough to
      drive the air out of his lungs. He found himself looking up at
      Hermione, Draco, and the pair of aurors that had been escorting her
      patient. The aurors had jumped in front of the other two and the
      patient, and were already acting - indeed, they had reacted so
      quickly that one of them had already raised a shield of
      brightly-glowing silver spheres the size of golf balls.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salvatore barely even used incantations, and had no wand, but he
      had filled the air with flame, nonetheless. In moments, it had
      blocked out everything from Harry's sight but its own bright light,
      tumbling and toiling in the air like a living thing. He could smell
      hair burning and knew that he was on fire, and he beat at his head
      and face, flapping at himself and trying to smother the flames,
      screaming. He had a moment's glimpse of the aurors - they were
      burnt and burning, too, one of them also screaming, his face a
      blackened thing. Draco tackled that one, putting his wand to her
      chest and trying to do something. Hermione was already standing,
      her own wand raised, casting curses. Charlevoix was cowering behind
      her, her arms wrapped in front of her head in an attempt to protect
      herself. Hermione's pale face was lit a hellish orange by the
      fire-glow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry couldn't follow the combat, couldn't find his wand, could
      barely hold on to his <em class="calibre7">sanity</em> as he yanked his robes up and
      tried to smother the flames on his body with them, ripping them
      with desperate yanks until they moved freely and slamming them down
      again and again to try to beat out the fire.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By the time he had put out the flames, the room was already so
      full of smoke that he was coughing and choking. He couldn't find
      his wand, oh god <em class="calibre7">where was his wand</em>… what did he have… He
      jammed his hand into his pouch and tried to choke out some words,
      but he could only cough and hack, doubling up, and god he could
      barely even see, everything was just a reddish-orange haze. What
      was the sign language - he couldn't remember, it was gone from his
      head - couldn't breathe couldn't see… Just thick smoke
      everywhere.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry could hear someone chanting, and if he hadn't already been
      panicking, he probably would have dissolved in terror when he
      recognized the words. "<em class="calibre7">Az-reth. Az-reth. Az-reth</em>." He
      remembered Voldemort saying that, and he remembered the thing that
      had come at that call.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The red-lit smoke turned scarlet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Someone grabbed his legs, and Harry kicked at the hands, wildly.
      They snatched him with incredible strength - inhuman strength- and
      he felt himself lifted bodily as he was hauled into the air. He
      would have screamed again, but when he tried to draw a breathe it
      came with the burning harshness of smoke, and he spasmed with
      coughing again, sucking poisonous air and choking on it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The hands threw him, and he was flying.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He landed hard, smashing into a corner of stone, and felt a riot
      of pain in his ribs, made worse by his hacking and coughing. But
      the air was fresher where he'd landed. His thoughts were a confused
      stream - where was he, why was he in the hall, what was happening -
      but he could breathe. He sucked in the air and the dimming world
      grew sharper.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rolled onto his side, still gasping, and looked back at
      his office. Thick black smoke was roiling inside, pouring out in a
      dense cloud.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As he watched, it began to thin, and he could make out shapes
      within it. Figures shouting words and casting spells, colored light
      tinging the smoke. One figure stood at the center, surrounding by a
      bright glow of scarlet that highlighted it like a silhouette
      against the sun. That broken man. Salvatore. His Fiendfyre was some
      monstrous snake, and it was burning away all the smoke in the room
      as it lashed out again and again. There were five aurors still
      standing, protecting each other and the patient and Draco and
      Charlevoix. Harry knew that more would be on the way, here within
      the minute.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And there was Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was impossible to fight Fiendfyre, of course. Nothing could
      beat that, not that they could imagine. All you could do was hope
      to avoid it, and even <em class="calibre7">that</em> seemed impossible. But somehow,
      she was doing it. Every time it lashed out, she would leap or dodge
      or duck, sending another curse Salvatore's way, forcing the
      creature of hellish fire to return to him. The aurors poured on
      their own attacks, a blur of aggressive spellcasting that Harry
      could barely follow. The very nature of the Fiendfyre consumed most
      curses, but even that extravagance was beginning to prove
      insufficient. Salvatore was badly wounded. Blood was pouring out of
      a ragged hole in his stomach, and he was missing some fingers on
      one hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry could hear the man screaming, over and over. "NO! NO! NO!"
      He screamed and threw waves of flame, beat back attacks with living
      fire, and flooded the room with heat and smoke. "<em class="calibre7">You
      can't!</em>" he screamed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An instant later, a curse hit him in the chest, and he
      collapsed, his face lifeless.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Fiendfyre flared up and roared with leprous flame, surging
      larger and larger as the control left it, and it ran free. It grew
      brighter and brighter, its wide coils and thrashing,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An auror fell, obliterated to the waist by flame. Another had
      already lost an arm. Draco was screaming. Harry could see Hermione
      fall, withering like a leaf in the summer heat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Granville called. The phoenix's cry was piercing and pure, like
      the voice of a god.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw the creature for only a moment as it flashed past him,
      soaring with the speed and determination of an arrow. It swept
      overhead with a streak of golden flame.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It never hesitated. It flew at the Fiendfyre with a courage and
      joy so pure that Harry's heart broke to see it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gold met scarlet. With a sound like thunder, both vanished.
      Nothing was left in their wake but stinking smoke and the echoes of
      a phoenix's last call.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He felt hands on him again - an auror, roughly pulling at his
      wounds and laying a wand on him.. More were racing in past her,
      charging towards his office. Spells cleared the air, cleared his
      view.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He saw burned and dying aurors, thrashing. Several of them still
      standing, staggering and injured but with wands raised high. Draco,
      weeping.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He saw Charlevoix, her hands a tangle of charred flesh. Cradling
      something.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cradling Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">ÉLECTRE: Il fait beau. Partout, dans la plaine, des hommes
      lèvant la tête et disent: "Il fait beau", et ils sont contents. O
      bourreaux de vous-mêmes, avez-vous oublié cet humble contentement
      du paysan qui marche sur sa terre et qui dit: "Il fait beau"? Vous
      voilà les bras ballants, la tête basse, respirant à peine. Vos
      morts se collent contre vous, et vous demeurez immobiles dans la
      crainte de les bousculer au moindre geste. Ce serait affreux, n'est
      ce-pas? si vos mains traversaient soudain une petite vapeur moite,
      l'âme de votre père ou de votre aïeul? Mais regardez-moi: j'étends
      les bras, je m'élargis, et je m'étire comme un homme qui s'éveille,
      j'occupe ma place au soleil, toute ma place. Est-ce que le ciel me
      tombe sur la tête? Je danse, voyez, je danse, et je ne sense rien
      que le souffle du vent dans mes cheveux. Où sont les morts?
      Croyez-vous qu'ils dansent avec moi, en mesure?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">ELECTRA: The sun is shining. Everywhere down in the plains
      men are looking up and saying:</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">It's a fine day," and they're happy. Are you so set on
      making yourselves wretched that you've</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">forgotten the simple joy of the peasant who says as he walks
      across his fields: "It's a fine day"?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">No, there you stand hanging your heads, moping and mumbling,
      more dead than alive. You're</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">too terrified to lift a finger, afraid of jolting your
      precious ghosts if you make any movement.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">That would be dreadful, wouldn't it, if your hand suddenly
      went through a patch of clammy mist,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">and it was your grandmother's ghost! Now look at me. I'm
      spreading out my arms freely, and I'm</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">stretching like someone just roused from sleep. I have my
      place in the sunlight, my full place and to spare. And does the sky
      fall on my head? Now I'm dancing, see, I'm dancing, and all I feel
      is the wind's breath fanning my cheeks. Where are the dead? Do you
      think they're dancing with me, in step?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">-</em>Les Mouches<em class="calibre7">, Jean-Paul Sartre</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wearily, Harry mounted the stairs to the workroom of the
      Headmistress. In his pocket were four phials of blood from Vincent
      Crabbe, obtained after two hours of intimidation and veiled
      threats. Moody had helped, along with two aurors Moody had trained
      himself - an older one named Hedley Kwannon, and one barely out of
      training named Nymphadora Tonks. The glass phials, filled with the
      blood of Hermione's enemy, clicked against each other as Harry
      climbed the stairs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He pushed open the door. It was silent inside. Reddish light
      from the dawn illuminated the alchemical diagram on the floor:
      nested and interlaced circles and pentagons surrounding a central
      pentacle. He'd been here once before, when he first demonstrated
      partial Transfiguration - so long ago! - and the room didn't look
      to have been used since that visit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mad-Eye's not here yet. We have to wait," said Draco's voice
      from his left. Harry started, and stepped forward to see that the
      boy was sitting at the base of the circular wall, head slumped
      forward.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How are you, Draco?" asked Harry, quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This was your fault," Draco replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, you don't, you stupid piece of arrogant filth," said the
      Slytherin boy, but there was no anger in his voice. It was
      disconcertingly flat, with nothing but weariness and sorrow - the
      sorrow of someone who had been required to endure too much, too
      soon. "You think that you just made a mistake. You'd do the same
      thing all over again, but you'd just be sure to include one more
      trap. One more level of manipulation or cleverness. You don't see
      that the entire thing is… impossible. It's just impossible, and you
      won't see that, and Hermione just keeps <em class="calibre7">listening to you</em>,
      and now <em class="calibre7">she's</em> paid for <em class="calibre7">your</em>
      stupidity<em class="calibre7">.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And even worse, this is just another reminder of why I was
      stupid to ever trust you - to ever get involved in this asinine
      little play. Your goals are… mad. <em class="calibre7">Insane</em>. But you don't
      recognize that, since you don't recognize any limits to… to… to
      <em class="calibre7">anything</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was more than that, of course. It was even more than the
      terrible suffering and temporary absence of Hermione, as badly as
      that, too, had hurt the other boy. There was something more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">You're worried that I can't deliver on my promises… that
      you've placed hope in false prophecies and a false prophet. You're
      wondering if I am just a freak prodigy of Muggle science who looked
      really impressive in schoolyard antics, since he had a whole other
      world of tricks to steal, and who got lucky once… but who might
      just not be able to cut it in the real world.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco looked up at him, and the boy looked unspeakably sad -
      like he'd lost something precious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">You're worried I'll never be able to bring your father back,
      after all.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draco, there is-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shut up," interrupted Draco, his voice hardening. "Shut up and
      let's just wait without talking. You're always <em class="calibre7">talking</em>,
      but it didn't help her, did it? Her phoenix burned and she burned.
      And now she's dead, again, just like she was afraid would happen."
      Draco's eyes were red, but dry. "She told me that… those months
      when she was trying to get her Patronus. To meet your
      <em class="calibre7">expectations</em>. She told me that she was terrified of dying
      again and that she thought that was probably the reason she
      couldn't do it. 'I wake up screaming sometimes, Draco,' she
      said."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop," said Harry, squeezing his eyes shut.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco sounded more like he was scolding himself than Harry. His
      words were black and bitter. "And now she's all burned up and dead
      again, and it's your fault again. Because you don't understand what
      is <em class="calibre7">possible</em>, and you <em class="calibre7">talk</em> and you <em class="calibre7">push</em> -
      oh, Merlin, it always sounds so insane when you first start
      talking, but by the end of the conversation it's the <em class="calibre7">rest of
      the world</em> that seems insane, and how could I ever think that
      <em class="calibre7">made sense</em>? How could anyone be that damned arrogant?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned away, blindly. His eyes burned with hot tears. For
      a moment, despite all of his resolutions, he almost called on his
      dark side: to cool him and calm him and solve this problem. The
      cold emptiness of Voldemort's thought patterns would have been
      preferable to this. Null was better than negative.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But he didn't, because one did not abandon carefully-considered
      decisions during the exact sort of situation for which you had
      prepared them. All he could do, instead, was sink to the stone,
      slick with dust under his fingers, and cry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a time, his shoulders stopped heaving, and his breathing
      slowed from great shuddering gasps into quiet evenness. Draco had
      said nothing, and hadn't moved. When Harry pushed himself up into a
      sitting position, he saw through a smear of tears that the other
      boy was just staring at him, dully, with red-rimmed eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I…" began Harry, but he found that he didn't have any words. He
      fell silent again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eventually, he stood up and drew his wand. "<em class="calibre7">Scourgify</em>,"
      he cast, his voice heavy. The spell cleared away the dust. Putting
      away his wand, Harry opened his pouch and reached in. "Cauldron,"
      he said to it, and felt the metal lip of a small cauldron leap into
      his hand. He pulled it free of the pouch, which distended to permit
      its passage, and set it in the center of the diagram.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sat down next to it, and took the phials of blood out of
      his pocket. He set them down next to the cauldron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco pushed himself to his feet, and walked over. Digging into
      the pocket of his robes - <em class="calibre7">still the same burned ones, had he
      not had a chance to change? no, of course... he left them on for
      effect</em> - he pulled out a small bag of soft bicorn skin and
      dropped it down next to the other objects. The flesh of a servant,
      willingly given by Odette Charlevoix.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody would be here soon, with a piece of bone from Hermione's
      father. He had insisted on doing this part himself, saying that he
      didn't trust anyone else to invisibly infiltrate Happy Smiles
      Family Dentistry, stun one of the owners, extract a chip of bone
      while the man was unconscious, and fix any memories afterwards. It
      was a thankless task, and Harry thought that some part of Moody's
      insistence was probably repentance. Moody blamed himself for the
      attack, almost as much as he blamed Harry. "We weren't paranoid
      enough," he had said, bitterly. It was as heavy an indictment as he
      could deliver.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They waited in silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Finally, Harry spoke again. "I tried. I tried as hard as I
      could. I thought through everything and planned it out and
      assembled every bit of information… I counted forty-three known
      threats and planned for eight kinds of unknowns. We had just…
      <em class="calibre7">layers</em> of security and plans." Draco knew most of them, of
      course. He'd helped, along with Moody and Hermione and Bones.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were fat folders, stuffed with parchments - or had been,
      anyway, before the fire ate the hidden boltholes that had been
      serving as safes. Dossiers on people and information on countries:
      <em class="calibre7">CHINA. Overview: Continued worries about European and British
      dominance in magic, may seek to strike before new regime rises.
      Often isolates self and seeks to extend power over Ten Thousand,
      but pragmatic leadership points to a willingness to shift tactics,
      if seems advantageous. Traditional value for immortality, connected
      to long specialization in potioneering. Informal and formal power
      structures largely mirror each other; little vulnerability to
      factionalization but suggests opportunity to shift key
      functionaries and alter trajectory of entire country.</em> And so
      on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Plans within plans, contingency upon contingency: living and
      adaptable Matryoshka dolls whirling in a furious dance. A location
      that couldn't be stormed by force, allies watching other allies,
      security measures and magical wards that could cut off the life of
      an attacker in moments. And none of it had done any good when the
      mind of a powerful wizard had broken. He had died, but so had
      others. So had Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not your fault that you can't do the impossible. It's only
      your fault that you <em class="calibre7">try</em> the impossible, and other people
      pay for it," replied Draco. He stared down at Harry. "You can't
      plan for everything. The world is dark and people are vicious. Even
      the good ones are vicious, and the bad ones are worse, and the
      crazy ones do things you couldn't possibly predict. You can't
      control the universe, Harry Potter-Evans-Verres, you miserable,
      arrogant little scrub."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was silent once more, and looked away, unable to meet
      Draco's gaze. He hugged his knees. Draco turned away, walking
      heavily towards the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">There's too much evil and too much madness in the
      world</em>, Moody had said. <em class="calibre7">Too much damn randomness.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">You can't control the universe.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't accept that," he whispered, as much for himself as for
      Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" demanded Draco, turning back around, his voice
      incredulous - angry now, where he hadn't been before.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't accept that," Harry repeated, more loudly. He looked
      up. "<em class="calibre7">I do not accept that.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can't-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry lurched to his feet, swaying slightly, his kneecaps
      popping from the sudden shift. There was iron in his voice, now. It
      wasn't cold iron; it wasn't the chill metal of his dark side, icy
      with hateful clarity. It was iron at a white heat. He glowed with
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry said, his voice as certain as a hammerblow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," he repeated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," he said again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do not accept that. I do not accept death. I do not accept
      decline. I do not accept madness. I do not accept randomness. They
      are all part of the universe, and they are all important… but I do
      not - <em class="calibre7">mankind does not</em> - have to accept them," said Harry.
      "If you want out of this, then say so. If you want to lead a
      different life, then you <em class="calibre7">know</em> I won't begrudge you that. I
      will make that happen, and that choice I once gave you will always
      be yours: you may choose another path and you will not hear a word
      of regret from me. Your preferences are sacred. So if you think
      this can't be done… go." Harry's face was grim. "But I'm not
      going."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry walked towards Draco until he was inches away from the
      other boy. Iron was bright in his words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right now, there is a little girl somewhere in the world. She's
      a small thing for her age, with big eyes. She loves her big
      brother. She wants to be just like her mother when she grows up.
      But tonight, there will be an accident. A rotten tree will collapse
      as the little girl climbs it, and she'll tumble to the ground, and
      she'll land badly. And she'll die. And then her big eyes will be
      gone, and her brother will never see her again, and she'll never
      grow up to be like her mother. Everything she ever was or will be:
      gone and dead and buried.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Her brother will deal with his grief, in time, and may even
      find solace and strength in stories about how death is necessary.
      Her mother will cry and hurt, but in time it will hurt less, and
      she'll focus more on her son, and eventually the loss will fade
      until it's just a nagging ache in her heart - that never quite
      leaves. And the world will go on, because it's happened every day
      in every way, and we have learned how to manage the loss.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">But it doesn't have to be that way</em>. And I don't just
      mean saving that little girl, or Hermione, or even your father,
      Draco, but every little girl and friend and father. People die
      every day and they always have but I <em class="calibre7">do not accept
      it</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But something of Harry's heat had communicated itself with his
      words, and Draco's eyes were lit as bright as the red glow of
      Fiendfyre. He seized the front of Harry's robes, twisting his fists
      in them, and shoved as hard as he could. Harry stumbled backwards,
      foot skidding, and only barely kept his balance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you think I <em class="calibre7">want them to die</em>, you sanctimonious
      idiot? Are you even <em class="calibre7">listening</em> to me? I'm saying that it
      doesn't matter <em class="calibre7">how much you want them to live</em>, because the
      world is too complicated! You're <em class="calibre7">denying the data!</em> You
      want to do things that no one has ever done, and do them all at
      once which no one has even <em class="calibre7">dreamed of doing</em>. Not
      Dumbledore, not Salazar Slytherin, not the Peverell brothers, not
      even Merlin the bloody First Enchanter himself! The greatest
      wizards in the history of the world only barely attempted some tiny
      fraction of your insane fever dream! You want to rule the world and
      end death, good and fine, and you want to end poverty and sickness
      and make everyone equal and put goblins and other trash up on a
      pedestal and all that other fluffy <em class="calibre7">nonsense</em>, fine!" Draco
      was shouting, now. "But it is <em class="calibre7">impossible</em>! It is just
      <em class="calibre7">impossible</em>! To do any <em class="calibre7">one</em> of them was beyond
      anyone's power, even those who tried, much less <em class="calibre7">all of it at
      once!</em> And by trying to do it, you're going to burn down this
      world and everyone in it, and it is just <em class="calibre7">beyond arrogant and
      stupid to look at the world and declare that you are going to
      change it so much and so fast</em>, and we are all
      <em class="calibre7">suffering</em> because of <em class="calibre7">that!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry roared back at Draco, his voice larger than himself, as
      though it were echoing the cries of others, of legions, "I don't
      give a <em class="calibre7">damn</em> if it is impossible! I don't give a
      <em class="calibre7">damn</em> if no one has ever done it or tried it or dreamed it
      in the history of the world! 'Impossible' is a little word and a
      petty one - it's the word of small minds and small imaginations,
      and I <em class="calibre7">reject it</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco opened his mouth to say something, but Harry continued
      over him, shouting now, white iron in his words and eyes and heart,
      a white glow suffusing him as a glow from his wand waxed brighter
      and brighter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We are standing on the brink - at the moment of crux between
      peril and paradise, Draco! We are caught at the edges of two
      singularities, held equipoise at their event horizons, and it is
      <em class="calibre7">terrifying</em>, but when they offer you the Ring you don't
      reject it with the word 'impossible!'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco shouted back, lunging forward to stab a finger into
      Harry's chest: accusatory. "<em class="calibre7">Not everything is possible in this
      world!"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Harry replied, quietly, "Draco. There are more worlds than
      this one. We'll make one where we can save everybody. Impossible
      just means you haven't figured out how to cheat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">JUPITER: Pauvres gens! Tu vas leur faire cadeau de la
      solitude et de la honte, tu vas arracher les étoffes dont je les
      avais couverts, et tu leur montreras soudain leur existence, leur
      obscène et fade existence, qui leur est donnée pour rien.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">ORESTE: Pourquoi leur refuserais-je le désepoir qui est en
      moi, puisque c'est leur lot?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">JUPITER: Qu'en feront-ils?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">ORESTE: Ce qu'ils voudront: ils sont libres, et la vie
      humaine commence de l'autre côté du désespoir.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">ZEUS: Poor people! Your gift to them will be a sad one; of
      loneliness and shame. You will tear</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">from their eyes the veils I had laid on them, and they will
      see their lives as they are, foul and</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">futile, a barren boon.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">ORESTES Why, since it is their lot, should I deny them the
      despair I have in me?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">ZEUS: What will they make of it?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">ORESTES What they choose. They're free; and human life
      begins on the far side of despair.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">-</em>Les Mouches<em class="calibre7">, Jean-Paul Sartre</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">April 30th, 1999</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">John Snow Center for Medicine and Tower School of Doubt (The
      Tower)</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Now</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pain has an element of blank, and Harry suffered for some
      uncertain amount of time, twisting before Bellatrix Black's
      Cruciatus Curse. It was pain on another level - beyond the sort of
      suffering that should have been possible with mere nerves - a
      torture that transcended physicality. His very existence was in
      agony.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eventually, it stopped, and Harry found that he was lying on the
      floor of the corridor some distance down from where he'd begun.
      They'd moved him. He was soaked in sweat and shaking, and his
      throat was hoarse from screams he hadn't even know he'd been
      making.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The other Bellatrix was casting spells, sealing them off from
      the Extension Establishment. She cast them so quickly and so
      fluidly that Harry thought that she might have been able to hold
      off every single one of his gathered allies, striking them down one
      by one as they attempted the corridor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His torturer stood over him, leering, crazed. "Little dollies
      are dead. Your stupid slut of a mudblood is dead. I killed her.
      Your aurors are dead. And now you're going to tell me where the
      Dark Lord is, or we'll start killing everyone else."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry tried to calm his panting and sobbing. He separated it
      from himself, and closed his eyes. After a moment, he opened them
      again, fixing them on the witch. "I'm sorry. I want you to know
      that. What happened to you should never happen to anyone, and I am
      so sorry that it did. We're going to get you help."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All amusement vanished from her face. She looked bored, and
      contemptuous, staring at him with eyes of darkness and blood.
      "There is no help, little billy. And you have no way out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry closed his eyes again. "I know. I thought, maybe… I
      thought others could do this with me. That maybe they could take my
      place if they worked together. That I could be free. And maybe that
      will happen, someday. But sometimes a person gets lucky enough, or
      unlucky enough, to be put on the spot. To be the crux of things.
      And I had a friend, once - a phoenix - who taught me never to shy
      away from that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You talk like him," said the other Bellatrix. The one standing
      over Harry nodded, a look of fascination on her face. "But you are
      a wretched little homunculus, and now you'll learn a lesson."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Impossible little billy boy," sneered the witch standing over
      Harry, and leaned forward, her wand pointing at his chest. "Time
      time time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry, Bellatrix. I don't accept this," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Blood blossomed from her chest, and Bellatrix Black gurgled. Her
      remaining eye opened wide, and her mouth worked open and shut.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Cloak of Invisibility slid to the floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Hermione Granger pulled her fist from Bellatrix's back,
      blood splattering her determined face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No!" shrieked the other Bellatrix, whirling and raising her
      wand, but a hail of curses from behind Hermione cut her down and
      cut off her scream. Stunned and bound and silenced and paralyzed,
      Bellatrix Black toppled over, her face still distorted in shock and
      fury and hatred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry, Bellatrix. I found a way to cheat," said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Potter!" called Pip from the corner at the end of the
      corridor. He was staggering forward, seemingly about to faint, but
      was supported by J.C. Kraeme. She had his arm around her neck and
      was holding him up. They trailed behind Hyori, who had her wand up
      and still fixed on the two Bellatrixen as she strode down the hall.
      Her face was grim - but less grim than usual.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione glanced over at him and nodded at him as she knelt next
      to the witch she'd felled. He could see her wand sticking out of
      her belt, but it was broken. The last two inches were missing,
      exposing the raw reddish strand of dragon heartstring at the core.
      Useless.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry winced as she plunged two fingers into her left arm, and
      yanked free her spare wand. She set it to Bellatrix's chest, and
      began casting, working to heal the wound she'd caused and save the
      life of the insane villain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He sighed, lowering his head to the ground. He just lay there,
      still, for a moment, and smiled. He smiled in spite of
      everything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Out of sight, down where the north and south corridor met, he
      knew that the entrance to the Tower stood, unharmed. A golden oval,
      bright-shining and standing with impossible solidity.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">JUPITER: Rentre dans la nature, fils dénaturé: connais ta
      faute, abhorre-la, arrache-la de toi comme une dent cariée et
      puante. Ou redoute que la mer ne se retire devant toi, que les
      sources ne se tarissent sur ton chemin, que les pierres et les
      rochers ne roulent hors de ta route et que la terre ne s'effrite
      sous tes pas.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">ORESTE: Qu'elle s'effrite! Que les rochers me condamnent et
      que les plantes se fanent sur mon passage: tout ton univers ne
      suffira pas à me donner tort. Tu es le roi de Dieux, Jupiter, le
      roi des pierres et des étoiles, le roi des vagues de la mer. Mais
      tu n'es pas le roi des hommes.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">JUPITER: Je ne suis pas ton roi, larve impudente. Qui donc
      t'a créé?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">ORESTE: Toi. Mais il ne faillait pas me créer
      libre.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">ZEUS: Know your sin, abhor it, and tear it from you as one
      tears out a rotten, noisome tooth. Or else — beware lest the very
      seas shrink back at your approach, springs dry up when you pass by,
      stones and rocks roll from your path, and the earth crumbles under
      your feet.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">ORESTES: Let it crumble! Let the rocks revile me, and
      flowers wilt at my coming. Your whole</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">universe is not enough to prove me wrong. You are the king
      of gods, king of stones and stars,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">king of the waves of the sea. But you are not the king of
      man.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">ZEUS: Impudent spawn! So I am not your king? Who, then, made
      you?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">ORESTES: You. But you blundered; you should not have made me
      free.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">-</em>Les Mouches<em class="calibre7">, Jean-Paul Sartre</em></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
