<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>46. Significant Digits pt2 - Significant Digits Chapter 45: Bonus: Draco, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="46. Significant Digits pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s17" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 45: Bonus, Draco</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Pursuant to an agreement, I grant and confirm to Armand</em>
      Malfoi <em class="calibre7">the Vale of</em> Haxburn Downs<em class="calibre7">, with the Manor
      of</em> Haxburn<em class="calibre7">, and the Chapel of</em> Haxburn<em class="calibre7">, &amp;c of
      the gift of</em> Osmundus Æþelindus<em class="calibre7">, Earl of</em> Haxburn<em class="calibre7">.
      I commend it to the</em> Use <em class="calibre7">of the selfsame Armand</em> Malfoi
      <em class="calibre7">with all good thanks for his</em> Service <em class="calibre7">for he has ever
      been a</em> True Friend <em class="calibre7">and</em> Loyal Servant <em class="calibre7">of my</em>
      House<em class="calibre7">, and I know it shall ever be</em> So<em class="calibre7">, and I do charge
      Armand</em> Malfoi <em class="calibre7">with the good</em> maintenance <em class="calibre7">and</em>
      safekeep <em class="calibre7">of the</em> Treasury of the South West <em class="calibre7">with all my
      Trust.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Grant of Lord-Enchanter Assurence de Chute, two years before
      his untimely death</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡<em class="calibre7">Ω≡≡≡</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Malfoy Manor, Wiltshire, England</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">February 12th, 1997</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">A year and ago</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Put the samovar on," Draco said, gesturing at the tapered
      silver device and glancing at Gregory. Three domovoi were visiting
      that evening, and they tended to be particular about such niceties.
      It was probably part of their unrelenting feelings of inferiority
      towards the British, as though Merlin's heirs were to blame for
      their position on top of the Confederation or their legacy of
      powerful magic. The Russians always wanted to be treated with every
      little courtesy, and bristled at any perceived slight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not that Draco would have it any other way. It was an easy lever
      to use, and required nothing of him but a bit of forethought.
      Everyone should be so pliable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory Goyle obliged, twisting one of the handles of the
      samovar. The device was an elegant piece, with two stylized
      dragon's heads protruding from the top. It began to heat itself
      with a quiet hiss. "What's the plan?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You bring them in, and then go and tag their brooms. The
      Thunderer has been spreading gold around, looking for ways to
      co-opt the Honourable. I want to know who's been helpful enough to
      be the point person for his emissaries," said Draco. "Once you've
      done that - and check out their people, see if there's any
      opportunities there - then you'll join us and play the heavy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco paused, then spoke to the air, curtly. "Dobby."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Barely a breath passed before the elf appeared, stepping out
      from behind a curtain. It was rude to apparate into the middle of a
      room, of course… proper house elf etiquette required a furtive
      entrance. The bedraggled little creature's bony face was pained
      with anxiety. "Master?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pack for a journey. Mother and I, both. Cold weather. Riding,
      formal blacks, formal greens, and lounging," Draco commanded. "I'll
      want to be ready to go by the time my meeting tonight is
      concluded." He turned away, gesturing dismissively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Master," said Dobby, eyes wide. He gently stepped back
      behind the curtain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Will Carrow be here for the meeting?" Gregory asked, looking
      uncomfortable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Draco, giving Gregory a direct and cold look.
      <em class="calibre7">What of it?</em>, his face said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine," said Gregory. Nothing more. He busied himself with
      arranging the furniture appropriately. He removed the two light
      wooden chairs from the room, levitating them out and replacing them
      with heavier armchairs. There were five of these: two set in close
      pairs and one separate, near the fire. Draco would take the single
      chair, of course, and allow the visitors to choose their own
      seats.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">How the Russians arranged themselves would be valuable
      information. If two sat and one stood nearby, it would show that
      they were choosing solidarity in some respect - usually indicating
      nervousness or conscious opposition. If all three sat immediately,
      it would show comfort and ease, suggesting Draco could easily
      advance the relationship by taking the domovoi into his confidence
      that very evening. If there was hesitation, the process and order
      in which they sat could be observed: who was the leader, who
      deferred to others, and so on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Poor little domovoi, coming to Malfoy Manor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They were necessary for the future, though - not just
      entertainment. Draco had a significant power base in Britain and
      many admirers abroad - the international subscriptions to
      <em class="calibre7">Unbreakable Honour</em> were almost equal to the domestic
      numbers - but he'd never be a credible player on the world stage
      until he had some firmer connections with some of the globe's more
      reliable leaders. Voters were all well and good, but if you wanted
      iron in the glove, you needed some of the better sort on your side.
      You needed some tyrants.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a creak in the hallway outside, and Draco froze.
      Gregory snatched his wand up, his face hard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's I," came the smooth voice of Amycus Carrow, "your Uncle
      Amycus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come," said Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The door opened, and Amycus Carrow entered. Tall and gaunt, the
      spymaster of the Honourable and old ally of the Malfoys was wearing
      black robes with shiny buttons, fastened tight up to his chin. The
      dark shadow of some scraggly whiskers were visible on his upper
      lip, and his hair was clipped very short.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draco, my boy," said Carrow. "So good to see you." His eyes
      flickered over the length of Draco's body, the way they always did
      - a possessive and lingering look. "Nacreous liver," he murmured,
      bizarrely and almost inaudibly. He seemed almost hungry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hullo, Mr. Carrow," said Gregory, just a touch too loudly. He
      put a smile on his face as a shield.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Carrow started slightly, as though he hadn't realized Gregory
      was there, and swiveled his head to glance at the other man.
      "Gregory," he said in acknowledgment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As usual, Draco was forced to admire the performance of Mad-Eye
      Moody. It wasn't simply the perfection of the acting, although that
      was so masterful that not even Amycus Carrow's nieces suspected the
      subterfuge (it helped that they were never permitted to spend much
      time with him, or to ever be alone with him: the uneasy parent's
      usual precaution against a "acrohandula"). No, the true
      magnificence of the performance was that Draco knew - he
      <em class="calibre7">knew</em> - that Moody was putting on this perfect imitation of
      Carrow at the same time as he played the part of Draco's spymaster
      while <em class="calibre7">also</em> watching out for Harry Potter's interests
      <em class="calibre7">and</em> remaining constantly vigilant of immediate threats. It
      was the virtuoso exhibition of a masterful fanatic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Was your excursion useful, Amycus?" Draco asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody - no, it was impossible to think of him as anything other
      than Amycus Carrow - Carrow pursed his lips. "Yes… I think so. You
      are the only one who can credibly promise such gifts to the Thai.
      They won't step out ahead of China, for fear of being left alone in
      the cold, but they will drag their feet as much as they may. The
      Ten Thousand are never quick on the stick, but I don't believe we
      need to worry about them joining the ranks of our enemies, any time
      soon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The dragon's heads on top of the samovar opened their mouths,
      hissing twin streams of steam. Their eyes glowed a dull red.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco walked to one of the room's tall windows, and stood there
      for a moment, looking out at the night. He could see one of the
      towers of <em class="calibre7">The Declaration of Intent</em>, and it was a sharp
      reminder of the importance of the stewardship of assets.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We will give them nothing they can use - ideas of promise, but
      no application. Dead ends," said Draco. "A taste of power, but
      nothing to tip our hand or upset the balance in the Ten
      Thousand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They aren't fools, my boy," said Carrow. "They won't be so
      easily misled. If a bitch will bear no pups, you don't just cut its
      throat… you also give your elf a lesson with the knife."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco thought of Dobby, and smirked. "If an elf is left so
      poorly trained, then there's no one to blame but yourself." He
      reversed Moody's metaphor, making it more to his liking: "We will
      throw a treat to our foreign friends. The Thais, the Russians,
      those Americans… old allies and new, they'll learn the potential
      power of joining us. We have people within the Tower and in the
      Department of Mysteries to assist."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Such as Umbridge won't get you what we need," said Carrow,
      stroking his chin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stolen secrets won't be the sole bait. There will also be
      simple advancements harvested from the Muggles. There is remarkable
      power in these techniques… power that will astonish even you,
      Amycus," said Draco, turning to the side and regarding Carrow
      again. "The principles of Mendel can reshape the flesh of beasts in
      a fashion more safe and more stable than even the feats of the
      fabled sarkamancers of the Eleusinian Mysteries. You think it is an
      accident that Loony Lovegood is meddling with Devil's Snare? The
      methods behind her madness are a coin for us, too." He snapped his
      fingers. "And we will also buy trust with deceit. Already and at
      this very moment, I am acting to set up a rival to the Honourable -
      a rival that will conspicuously fail, and in the process cost our
      erstwhile allies any investment they might make."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your lovely mother," said Amycus, nodding slowly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Taking a meeting - she is considerably enthused about the
      project. I believe it amuses her to hand-craft a rival. Traps made
      of people are an elegant thing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would have been able to assist in this, had I known ahead of
      time, my boy." Carrow folded his hands in front of himself, tilting
      his head slightly to the side. His right eye twitched. "A
      mistake."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco's expression became cold, and his eyes narrowed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Carrow stared back, unblinking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a long pause. Then Draco drew a breath, and spoke with
      cold care. "You presume too much, <em class="calibre7">Carrow</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory stood up a little straighter, and squared his shoulders;
      a subtle and appreciated signal.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco turned to face Carrow, and brought his palms together in
      front of himself. He drew them apart across his chest, and as they
      parted, his father's cane appeared in the gap, growing as Draco
      spread his hands, until the Lord Malfoy could grasp the
      snake-headed silver handle and bring the other end down to the
      floorboards with a sharp crack.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco raised his voice, beginning loudly, all thunder and
      lightning "<em class="calibre7">I am</em> <em class="calibre7">Draco Malfoy, and I… I...</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His voice trailed off. Draco lowered his gaze. He fell silent.
      He let his shoulders slump slightly, as though the wind had been
      taken from his sails. He stood like that, and held it. Waited.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lord Malfoy?" asked Gregory, hesitantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," said Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory drew a sharp breath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco raised his eyes again, glancing at Gregory. "No," he said
      again. "This is too important. It is too important for
      grandstanding."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then he met Carrow's eyes with a steady gaze, and his voice was
      quiet. "No speeches, no grandeur, no orders. I tell you here
      tonight, Amycus Carrow, that this is the sticking point for a
      hundred generations of wizardkind. If we fail, then the world will
      be a darker and sadder place." Draco thought of a silver light he'd
      once seen… a pure glow that had overturned so many lies with its
      very existence, filling him with such an argent awe that it changed
      his world in a heartbeat. He imagined that light gone forever, and
      let that sorrow fill his voice. "If we fail - if we let one trick
      slip by or fall short by an ounce of wit, then our world will
      become a Muggle-made thing of immortal monsters. We are confronting
      an existential threat: a looming power that might not only end us,
      but end everything we hold dear."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He shook his head. "So no threats and no foolishness. If you
      don't have the mettle to hold to your place and do your part, even
      when it harms your pride, well - go, and may your chains sit
      lightly upon you." He raised his cane - a mere symbol and a
      powerless prop, but wasn't persuasion the mightiest thing of all? -
      and he pointed it at Carrow. "But if you have honour, and you're
      with us… then you are <em class="calibre7">with us</em>, and you will <em class="calibre7">heed your
      place</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Apophasis.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before he'd even finished speaking, Carrow had fallen to one
      knee. "I can offer nothing but my apology and my fealty, Lord
      Malfoy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory looked as satisfied as the kneazle that caught the
      cracklebit. He crossed his arms, and a smile lurked at the corner
      of his mouth. He looked a foot taller. He looked like faith
      fulfilled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Master," said Dobby, emerging from behind a different curtain.
      "Your visitors are here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let them in," said Draco, without taking his gaze off of
      Carrow. Dobby disappeared back behind the curtain once more. Draco
      lowered his cane. "Goyle, go meet them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Goyle left, his face revealing barely-disguised triumph. The
      story of this moment would travel. Draco smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Carrow and Draco were alone. There was only the quiet hiss of
      steam, rising dangerously from twin dragon heads, to keep them
      company.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bah," said Carrow, rising off of his knee and standing up
      again. He snatched out his wand and waggled it, almost too fast to
      follow, the the warm crackle of wards settled on around them.
      Privacy screens, above and beyond the ones that already layered the
      Manor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco didn't say anything - didn't rub it in. There was no
      need.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Try that again, Malfoy," he said, glowering, "and you will get
      a rather different reaction. Goyle will be spreading the story of
      how you lost an ear, instead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco watched him coolly. "And damage everything we've been
      building? You have more discipline than that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe. But also too much discipline to be afraid to upset the
      applecart, if need be," replied Carrow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Before you do, be quite certain it's worth it. One only gets
      one chance at ruining plans like these."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Plans like these? Your mother is setting up some small circle
      of idiots to take a fall, sucking some Cappadocian money with them
      as they go, eh? Helping build up the Honourable to draw in all the
      enemy?" said Carrow. He stabbed a finger at Draco. "Or is it a
      cover for your own efforts to set up an independent base of
      power?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not above a fall-back plan, Mad-eye," said Draco, "because
      I am not an idiot. If something happens to Harry, or he goes too
      far, or anything else… well, I don't intend to wager everything on
      one game of pitch-and-toss. But my fall-back lies in the
      Honourable: they are my 'independent' base of power, if need be,
      not some momentary troop of patsies. That is why the Honourable are
      loyal to me, personally. Harry knows that. You know that. And you
      both understand it, too, I think." He fixed Carrow with a harsh
      look. "Don't pretend to purity. I know you have your own private
      plans."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not that he <em class="calibre7">knew</em>, really, but there could not be a
      safer assumption.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's a difference between preparation and betrayal," said
      Carrow, in a most un-Carrow-like growl. "Which are you at, I
      wonder?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Continue</em> to wonder," pronounced Draco, curtly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aye," said Carrow, slowly. "Well. You may believe you can
      bludger Potter in the back, if you get the opportunity. And maybe
      you're right. He's clever, but soft. He trusts you. But I
      don't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Carrow gave Draco a hard stare, and his very face was a reminder
      of his capacity for subterfuge. "Be careful thinking you can play a
      deeper game than me, boy. Many have tried... and gotten no deeper
      than six feet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lord Draco Malfoy," said Gregory, opening the door across the
      room, "of the Noble and Most Ancient House of Malfoy, Britain's
      last and best defender of the honour of wizardkind and the fate of
      magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco turned to regard the door, cane in hand, and his face slid
      into a courteous smile of welcome. Three men with hard faces but
      indifferent grooming stepped into the room ahead of Gregory. They
      had the weighty air of importance. One of them wore a brooch of
      emeralds-and-alicorn, while another openly carried an old wand of
      the Slavic style, two feet long and bladed. They all wore the red
      woollen cloaks of Russian domovoi: the decision-makers of one of
      the great peoples in the wizarding world, no less magisterial than
      the Wizengamot. These were men who had held lives in their hands,
      who had scrutinized their subjects down to the curve of their soul,
      who had begun and ended wars as they saw fit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now they were come to Malfoy Manor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Carrow and Goyle walked over to stand beside Draco. Draco's
      smile broadened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Please, gentlemen," he said. "Sit wherever you like."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
