<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>46. Significant Digits pt2 - Significant Digits Chapter 47: The Thing with Wings, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="46. Significant Digits pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s19" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 47: The Thing with Wings</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">KARL: You think you are safe here, in your village utopia?
      War is upon us! Hear the sound of drums. The enemy approaches in
      scant minutes, and our hourglass flows so quickly... witness the
      last of the time! Lords and ladies… I beseech you! Wake up and
      attend to your own hour of doom! Flee!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">ERIN: We hear. We understand. But we will not run. We will
      not abandon Sontag.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Last Days of Exses O'Bruinan," by S. Leigh, as staged in
      the 1979 London production.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">John Snow Center for Medicine and Tower School of Doubt (The
      Tower)</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">May 18th, 1999</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">One day later</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco's office in the Tower was in the rear of the complex,
      where it had been expanded. He had originally been situated near
      Material Methods. It might have been quiet there at the moment,
      with the goblins all shut up and withdrawn into Curd and Ackle, off
      doing gobliney things (presumably comparing ear length or bathing
      in rubies). But as soon as the dodgy little blokes were back to
      work, hammering out more absurdly large golden gloves, then that
      area would become intolerable: unfortunate smells, clamorous noise,
      and a horde of chest-high half-elves swarming underfoot in the
      corridor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now he was comfortably ensconced next to the new offices of the
      Vision Verge, instead. They were almost all wizards and witches,
      except for the one centaur, and they mostly did quiet things
      involving lenses and the like. It was uninteresting work - what
      possible use was there for the tiny Protean-Charmed little toggles
      they were making? - but also a peaceful little corner of the
      oft-bustling Tower.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Dearest Mother</em>, he wrote, leaning over the parchment on
      the desk in front of him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">All is going well - better than we could have hoped. There
      are plans to reorganize the way the Tower operates, now that a new
      Receiving Room will be built to accommodate the Ten Thousand. That
      has meant a second Terminus to be in charge, and a second command
      structure for it, and now the whole question of who reports to whom
      has been upended. The Westphalians are all in a clamour about the
      new addition, as well, and are arguing that the Americas should
      also have their own Receiving Room. If they win, then simple pride
      will oblige the construction of a fourth Room for the Free States,
      Nigeria, and any other African states that join.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">In fact, I believe that the Tower will become a proxy body
      for the Confederation, which will soon mean, of course, that it
      will become subject to votes from that body. Potter is a soft
      touch, and he won't be able to flout the Confederation forever
      without the excuse of the Independent opposition. That will be an
      opportunity for many, including us. Good fortune floats into our
      hand like a ripe dirigible plum.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco continued in this vein for some length, setting forth his
      pretended expectations with just enough vagueness to appear
      plausible. He laid out a vision of a potential path to power within
      the Tower - and more importantly, made sure that this vision was
      transferable: a blueprint for others to follow, as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When he was done, he took a parchment razor and notched the
      lower-left corner of the first page twice, then folded and sealed
      the packet. Draco would send it to his mother, and she'd know it
      was meant for others to see. It would be "stolen," and reinforce
      his efforts at tempting a few choice individuals into the fold.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a loud knock at his office door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco looked up, irritated at the interruption. He glanced at
      the big watch on the wall. He was expecting his "spy" and ally
      Dolores Umbridge at ten o'clock, but he'd expected to have time to
      write a genuine dispatch to his mother in addition to the fake one.
      They'd built something special over these past years with their
      Honourable, and he had no intentions of letting it - or their
      relationship with each other - decay. "Who is it?" he asked,
      curtly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There are some who call me… Tim," said a voice from the other
      side of the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come in, Longbottom," Draco said, sighing in annoyance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville opened the door, glancing around the room as he stepped
      inside. At some point in the years since he and Draco had first
      boarded the Hogwarts Express, Neville had grown tall and handsome.
      He was a bit gawky, but with an obvious strength in his wiry frame.
      His eyes were bright and his smile was wide and he was utterly
      intolerable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry wanted to know if you had a minute," Neville said. He
      squinted at a statue in the corner - a beautiful sculpture in gold
      of a fat-bodied cobra with numerous heads, coils piling up beneath
      it and a single broad hood loomed behind its heads.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine," said Draco, checking the wall-watch again. He dropped
      the cover over the inkwell built into his desk and cleared the
      parchments to one side. He included the fake dispatch among them.
      He'd send it later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville jerked a thumb in the direction of the statue. "That's
      new."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's from Thailand," said Draco, turning to regard it. "Not a
      real beast. 'Ananta Shesha,' a fanciful notion of the Muggles… They
      say that it holds the entire world on its hood."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville regarded it closely. There were tiny scales pricked into
      its surface, and each tiny snake-head wore a delicate crown. "So
      he's trod down by everyone else, despite all his crowns?" he asked,
      lightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco ignored the jab for a moment. He adjusted his robes as he
      walked around the desk, and he kept his voice mild as he replied,
      "One day, they say he will uncoil."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville scowled as the Slytherin stepped past him and out into
      the corridor. Draco turned to give him a level look, and spoke over
      his shoulder, "And then, he'll be all that's left." Draco smiled
      coolly. "Ananta Shesha: 'that which remains.' "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not his best work… but then, it was only Neville, who spent most
      of his day wallowing with Muggles and play-fighting with them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco walked briskly down the corridor, past the Verge, and
      along the hallway squeezed between the Conjuration Conjunction and
      Extension Establishment, the latter filled with annoyed people
      snapping at each other irritably. There had been serious
      malfunctions in the latest slicebox prototypes. They were intended
      for the creation of a second pocket world, which would also be put
      into orbit out past the sky, but they'd been rupturing instead. One
      researcher had nearly been killed by an accidental backlash that
      had bisected her at the waist.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He turned left, moving past the entrance to Material Methods,
      and then pushed open the door to the meeting room, striding on
      inside. <em class="calibre7">It's important not just to look like you know what's
      going on, but to appear to actually be in command of it,</em> his
      father had used to say.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were a few people in the meeting room with Harry. A couple
      of aurors, Percy Weasley, and Cedric Diggory. No Bones and no
      Mad-Eye… nothing about the Tower or politics or anything foreign.
      Probably government...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He considered likely possibilities as quickly as possible as he
      nodded to those sitting at the table and walked over, past the
      aurors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Was this about his mother? No, they'd leave that alone, no
      matter what. They knew better than to get between Draco and his
      family. They knew he was a Malfoy above all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Had one of his minions gotten out of hand? Draco did an
      inventory of the likely suspects - the lowbrow pawns who'd run most
      of Knockturn Alley. Gem and his people were in Howard Prison for
      another three months… Laura Lock and Tallow Enser were still in
      hiding in Kent and unwilling to come out. That left Jean-Luc Bigby
      and Mortimer Kainen. They'd been kipps by trade six years ago,
      collecting loans and insurance. Had they gone back to that and
      gotten picked up after hexing the wrong person?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Was this more personal? Had they started getting information
      from Bellatrix, finally - penetrating the unfathomable protection
      of her insanity?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello, Harry," Draco said, standing behind an empty seat. He
      rested his hands on it. He waited just a fraction of a second
      before turning to the other two, saying, "Diggory. Weasley." A
      gentle reminder of the order of things. "What are we on about this
      morning?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just the usual, Malfoy," said Cedric, with his customary
      badly-disguised air of scorn. He'd had difficulty accepting the new
      reality in the Tower: Draco as ally and not defeated enemy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco smiled a knowing smile, and pulled his chair out. But he
      didn't sit down, pausing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was something wrong.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco didn't know what it was, but he knew there was something
      wrong. He glanced from face to face, again. He couldn't quite put
      his finger on it, but he felt the disquiet in his guts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">What is it? Is it Mother, after all? No, Harry would tell me
      in private first, if that were it. Was it a misunderstanding - the
      uncovering of a "plot" to overthrow Harry, and it's been
      misunderstood?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He could see it, now, all of a sudden, as they looked back at
      him. It was their expressions. Harry and Diggory and Weasley all
      seemed to have their attention somewhere else. Not as though they
      weren't paying attention or anything so obvious - but rather, it
      was as though they were distracted by a noise or presence that he
      couldn't see. It was subtle… but then, Draco's tutor in the social
      graces, Master DeCampo, had always said that manipulation was the
      most delicate dance of all. These were three people struggling with
      their guilt. He could see it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Why do they feel guilty?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think -" Draco began, but he could already feel the presence
      of the aurors close behind him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A wand jabbed into his back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco smirked, despite the roiling of his stomach. <em class="calibre7">Did Harry
      seriously think I've never considered the possibility of betrayal?
      "There are only three certainties: death, betrayal, and hag's
      teeth."</em> He'd personally made a portkey to his own office
      within the Tower. Portkeys couldn't take him outside the facility,
      but they could travel within its bounds - to a prepared escape
      cache.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is a mistake, Potter," he said. He considered the
      appropriate <em class="calibre7">bon mot</em> to leave in his wake, and fixed
      Harry's eyes with his own. Harry looked conflicted, his face
      uncertain. <em class="calibre7">Uncommitted. Ultimately, not enough will to carry
      this out.</em> Draco felt more confidence at the thought. <em class="calibre7">This
      might actually be a good thing.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">A hand rested lightly on his shoulder from behind, from someone
      unseen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Egeustimentis</em>," he heard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After the necessary adjustments, they all sat down together. The
      Master took Harry's usual seat. They began to discuss what seemed
      to be the next step.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Trying to ambush Mad-Eye," said Draco, shaking his head. "It
      sounds almost like a… like something that is untrue by its very
      nature."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A contradiction in terms?" suggested Cedric.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A paradox?" offered Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco nodded at Harry. "A paradox. Like burning water. Or a
      lucky elf." He shook his head. " 'An ambushed Moody.'
      Impossible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, we've hit critical mass, I think," said Harry. "We have
      enough people to do it, but not so many people that we've been
      found out. Most of the aurors on shift yesterday and during the
      night, and everyone on shift today - and now Draco. If we act now,
      we might even keep it from getting messy." He looked hopefully over
      at the Master.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Meldh said, nodding gently. "The changes I have made are
      not… subtle. The Lethe Touch takes centuries to master, but even my
      skill is not enough to disguise such a change in, ah,
      <em class="calibre7">priorities</em>, shall we say?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco nodded in agreement, as well. "I knew something was
      different when I walked into the meeting. And there's no sense in
      wasting an asset that might help the Master, later. You're right,
      we should act immediately."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry leaned forward, using one hand to brush the end of his
      ponytail back over his shoulder. "Is there any risk the Lethe Touch
      will wear off?" he asked Meldh. "If it has a time limit, we should
      make sure to set up a schedule - maybe a system to keep an eye on
      each other." He paused, thoughtfully, and wagged a finger at his
      Master. "If we're going to help you, you're going to need to start
      telling us things about what you want and your assets."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Meldh raised an eyebrow. He leaned forward and folded his arms
      on the table in front of him. He had a mild look on his face -
      amused curiosity, as though he were looking at children. "Oh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you fishing for information, Harry?" asked Cedric, frowning
      suspiciously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, yes," said Harry, contemplatively. "It's interesting. I
      suppose I'd always assumed that mind magic like Imperius would come
      with an underlying change in personality and methodology. Maybe
      I've been making comparisons to Muggle techniques that don't serve
      - things like brainwashing. Instead, it's more like Muggle politics
      than anything else… the dark side of rationality, where ideas don't
      have inherent value, but only matter as… as... " He made a gesture.
      "As soldiers. In politics, whether or not an idea or theory
      reflects reality is less important than whether it helps or hurts
      my team."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Meldh's face darkened. He rose from his seat, slowly. "How can
      you speak this way? How have you defeated the Touch?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "It's not what you think. I serve you
      above all else, Master Meldh. But you didn't lobotomize me. I'm
      capable of introspection - I can recognize that the change to my
      priorities wasn't predicated on rational assessment of the
      situation." He grinned, good-naturedly. "More knowledge is better,
      even about yourself. You'd be amazed how many times I've had to
      talk about this -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Lecture</em> about this," Cedric put in, sighing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"- but it's true," Harry continued, unperturbed. "There's no
      danger to knowing how your own mind works, including all of the
      biases that damage your ability to make rational decisions. We're
      incredibly biased towards acting according to your instructions,
      Master, and it wouldn't serve you to pretend that's not so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It would be less creepy, Harry, if you would just make your
      peace with it," said Draco, frowning. "Accept that this is the way
      it is, and don't overthink it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, no," said Harry, quickly. "That's just it! You're
      conflating the idea of resisting the change in our minds with the
      idea of <em class="calibre7">understanding</em> it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is not useful," said Meldh, quietly. He'd become mild
      again, apparently accepting Harry's explanation, and lowered
      himself back into his seat. "We will finish planning, so that we
      eliminate all threats. Then we will take the time to prepare our
      moves for the future… what pieces we keep and what pieces we
      sacrifice. We will adjust our strategy, so we can move towards my
      chosen endgame - not your madness of healing Muggles and throwing
      things into the sky. Magic must have its end."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked momentarily flummoxed, opening and closing his
      mouth a few times. Draco smirked, watching. Eventually, Harry found
      words again, frowning. "Yes, sir." His frown became surprise, as
      though he'd intended to say something else.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco turned his attention back to the Master. "He is due to
      come in today at some point for an intrusion attempt, since it's an
      even-numbered day. I suggest we prepare a fake repeater in the
      clinic, and ask him for help."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There have been a few people who have been unhappy with their
      rejuvenation who have tried to convince us to do the process
      again," Cedric explained. "It's against policy, since it's too
      time-consuming and it takes time away from others. If a healer is
      rejuvenating someone for the second or third time, that means
      there's someone else in actual need of rejuvenation who has to wait
      in suspension. We had three French wizards who caused a problem
      about this, a couple of years ago, and backed up the queue so badly
      that several people came very near to dying. We keep a sharp eye on
      répéteurs ever since."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Moody has prepared for this sort of thing," said Harry. "I know
      for a fact. One of his jobs is to be paranoid about everyone." He
      stabbed a finger onto the surface of the table. "Even <em class="calibre7">me</em>."
      He turned to Draco. "One level won't be enough. We need levels and
      levels if we want to have any hope, here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alastair Moody was waiting until just before midnight. People
      got sloppy at night - forgot to check their corners, lost track of
      everyone in the room, and other laxness. He hadn't done a night
      intrusion on the Tower in months. By that time, they'd be wondering
      if he'd already managed to get in… they'd start double-checking the
      patients already in the clinic and verifying the identity of
      everyone in the halls. Added to their fatigue, it might be the edge
      he needed to get to Harry and "assassinate" him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He smiled to himself as he checked the Glenwallace Traps on the
      doorframes of his house. This was going to be a fun one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It helped that he was in a good body. A tall and healthy man
      with a dark complexion and brown eyes - nondescript but usefully
      vital. There was a lot to be said for the usefulness of sheer
      physical health when it came to break-ins, although the stealth
      value of a small child or an obese man wasn't to be shunned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A small bell rang twice, and Moody frowned. Owl in the hutch. He
      checked the front door and the windows, and then went to the hutch.
      It was carrying nothing but parchment, so he opened the swivel-door
      barrier and let the owl through, and plucked the message free.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">REPEATER IN THE CLINIC. WE NEED A QUIET REMOVAL AND TO MAKE
      SURE THIS DOESN'T HAPPEN AGAIN. APPLY PERSUASION.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was signed by Malfoy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A trick? A trap? Alastair knew where at least 75% of Malfoy's
      little gang were, and they were almost all neutralized. Assuming he
      could be wrong by as much as a fifth, and that Malfoy might have
      gotten leverage over some of the mid-level aurors - maybe a
      Terminus on duty - or maybe Malfoy himself had been suborned by a
      larger operation or a powerful individual, maybe the Three. Or just
      an attempt to curry favor. Or rather, more subtle: an attempt to
      appear as though he were currying favor, so as to be taking an
      obvious hopeless action in a safe way while putting forth another
      plan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Might also be the Chinese or Americans, making a try now that
      they had their foot in the door. He wouldn't put it past that lousy
      little Hig, who was all helpful and sweet now that the Westphalians
      had what they wanted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was also just barely possible that there was no ulterior
      motive to the situation or message. He chuckled out loud at the
      thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alastair snatched some leaves of parchment from the writing desk
      near the hutch and wrote three terse messages in his crooked and
      crabbed hand, ordering a change in the shift commanders at the RCP
      and the Ministry, and sending a further letter to a cold-drop.
      Unlikely Malfoy or anyone else could have sway enough to manage
      every single shift commander. He sealed them with a hasty
      Verification Charm to match his wand, and sent them on their
      way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He checked the Glenwallace Traps again, and the other Dark
      Detectors while he was at it. Then Alastair pulled on his gear and
      checked it over. He studied his appearance in the glass for a long
      moment, but he looked safely ordinary.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The safest way would be to Apparate to the Ministry and then
      take a secure Flue, but they'd be expecting that and it would,
      ironically, make him more identifiable. No, as so often, the best
      way was the more direct and fastest. A Safety Stick.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It had looked wrong, right from the start.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alastair walked into the clinic from the Receiving Room to find
      a repeater, all right - someone with the unblemished skin and youth
      of the rejuvenated. He was arguing in the middle of the clinic with
      a healer, who was calmly trying to redirect the repeater back into
      a cubicle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But there were also seven aurors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was not any reason for there to be seven aurors. That was
      far too many. The three on shift here would have been sufficient,
      and an additional one from the Receiving Room would have been an
      abundance of caution. Sending four aurors in as reinforcement for a
      minor difficulty like this wasn't just a waste of resources: it
      would actually cause the very problem that they tried to avoid when
      repeaters showed up. Repeaters needed to be soothed, reassured, and
      sent on their way without a fuss.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Protocol was well-known. More than that, it was just common
      sense. And these weren't new aurors to the Tower, either, he
      noticed. They were old hands; people with experience, and no known
      ties to any other power that he knew. But here they were, where
      they shouldn't be, all standing in bunches.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Time to address the likelihood that this was a Malfoy trap for
      him (or a trap by someone else).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alastair backed out of the clinic and turned to the auror
      standing farther down the corridor, the one he'd just passed.
      "Pirrip!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The idiot turned. "Sir?" He'd just cleared Alastair mere moments
      ago, exchanging passwords.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go tell Harry that there's something very suspicious with the
      repeater in the clinic. Then come back at speed. Bring another hand
      with you - someone with battle experience," Alastair barked,
      sharply. He waited just long enough to see Pirrip on the jump, then
      turned and strode back into the clinic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But scarcely was he inside before he heard a scream. He whirled
      to see that Pirrip hadn't even made it out of sight down the
      corridor - the young auror was down, thrashing on the ground.
      Gutclench Curse or something similar.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Almost without thinking, Alastair sidestepped to the right, and
      without a pause charged into motion, out of the clinic. Behind him,
      he could hear voices shouting and spells being cast. Not all
      focused on him - whatever this was, he still had allies. He barely
      thought about his reactions as he raised the purplish light of
      Azarian Fire behind him, throwing himself to the side once he was
      clear of the doorway to the clinic. The Fire erupted behind him
      with a rush of smoke, and he took the opportunity to crouch low and
      lean back around the doorway, snatching at the goblin-silver door
      just to one side. A spray of Bertram Bolts sizzled through the air
      over his head as he hauled at the door, and it smoothly slid into
      place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He needed to get to Harry. Alastair took off at a dead run.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He didn't pause over Pirrip, not even breaking stride as he
      sprinted down the corridor over the lad. He spared a look to his
      right as he went past the entrance, but he could already see that
      the Receiving Room aurors had sent two of their number to assist
      him (traitors to stab him in the back? No, Madagascar and Nimue
      hated each other, that hate was more reliable than most things) and
      so he could rely on the alert being raised.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Down past the Advancement Agency, still sprinting, plucking a
      potion from his belt with his free hand and dropping it behind him,
      Alastair cursed. Whoever was behind this was causing chaos, but how
      could they think they'd win? That they'd get control of the Tower -
      they didn't even know what the Tower really was, or what happened
      here. Did they think to learn the "special webs" that made "Tower
      Transfiguration" possible here? Had they figured out the Stone…
      were they just trying to steal that? Moody hoped that Harry had his
      wits about him, and that he'd put on one of the decoy gloves as
      soon as he was threatened. The decoys each had a fragment of an
      ancient and ruined cup embedded in their palm, where the Stone went
      in the real glove - if anything was stolen, let it be one of
      them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But it was much worse than he thought. Charging around the
      corner, taking the turn at a momentary crouch, wand raised, he saw
      that they'd already gotten to Harry <em class="calibre7">oh Merlin oh no -</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was on the ground, and a knife was buried in his chest.
      Blood was spreading around him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">- check behind, nothing, run forward, call for help, two
      bringing up the rear to watch your back -</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was so much blood already, was the boy already dead? His
      shoes were wrong. He had to be saved, he had to be saved, there was
      no one who could take his place, not really.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">- move to the side, wand up, there's someone Disillusioned,
      see the shimmer, no bother with removal, wide-angle attack, get
      down -</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He dropped into a crouch again and raised his wand to Vom Tag,
      reaching out with his mind. He focused his will into the necessary
      shape and pushed away from him the thought of a grandmother's eyes
      and sparkling blue lights. It was devilishly tricky to aim, but he
      just needed to get it <em class="calibre7">out there</em> and he felt with relief
      the rush of arctic wind as it swept in a torrent away from his
      fingers, ripe with cold.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He brought up more Azarian Fire in front of him almost in the
      same breath, but never took his eye off the corridor. The blur of
      distortion that was his enemy made a movement, redirecting his
      attack. A skillful turn. Foolish to do it so well, they revealed
      too much about their style. Possibly meant to tempt him into
      overconfidence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">- <em class="calibre7">no time for this, no time no time, use the arch you can
      make it secret again later like the last time -</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alastair whipped three rapid-fire curses at his opponent, buying
      a half-second to reach into his robes. He felt the metal ring in
      its pocket, and snatched it free. Lunging to the side, he snapped
      his wand forward, shouting a curse powerful enough that his own
      ears ached from the pressure of its passage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And he hurled a metal ring at his enemy, urging it to work. He
      needed it to work. He needed it to <em class="calibre7">save Harry</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Arch of Ulak Unconquered, the most perfect prison ever
      devised, swelled impossibly as it sailed through the air. Within
      moments it had ceased to be a thing of physical reality, and had
      become a force of nature, transforming from a slender metal ring
      into a burnished hoop the size of a man.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alastair's foe was fast: he had time to try two full spells as
      the Arch flew at him. Both spells, a rush of wind and a blaze of
      fire, were swallowed by the Arch so thoroughly that they might
      never have existed. The Arch was a thing unyielding and unknowable
      - the last sanction of Alastair Moody, the reserve he retained
      against any betrayal.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then the Arch dropped down around the enemy, and the enemy
      was gone. There was only the empty metal hoop of the Arch resting
      on the stone, and Alastair brandishing his wand, and the aurors on
      his heels, and a dying Harry Potter-Evans-Verres. Whose shoes were
      wrong.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Whose shoes were wrong.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Trap</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was only a moment between the realization and
      unconsciousness, but that moment was long enough for Alastair to
      understand. A fake enemy. A fake Harry. A fake attack. Everyone was
      in on it. Everyone had betrayed him. Everything had gone wrong. And
      he had no more tricks left.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Constant vigila</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After Moody was theirs, the two aurors took away Kraeme's body,
      still transfigured into the shape of Harry. On Meldh's
      instructions, they put it in the clinic for the moment, until
      arrangements could be made. The Arch was more difficult. Moody
      himself had to whisper arcane words to it before he could lift it,
      releasing Cedric from a prison so complete that the Head Auror had
      not even been aware of the passage of time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone took a moment to recover.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But only a moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, then," said Meldh, turning to Harry. The Tower was
      blinking away tears, but with awkward shakes his his head that
      suggested he wasn't aware of it. "I believe now is an excellent
      time to visit a certain black box. There is a threat we need to
      address… and I think on a more permanent basis than you are willing
      to do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry felt an ache within himself, but no conflict within his
      will. The new arrangement of his mind carried him forward, as
      inexorably as a satellite sailing through space, and he nodded
      readily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was time to visit Voldemort.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
