<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>46. Significant Digits pt2 - Significant Digits Chapter 48: Pithos, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="46. Significant Digits pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s20" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 48: Pithos</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">[The goblin warlord CRAD THE CALLOW and two ATTENDANTS
      enter, stage left. CRAD, a loathsome beast with a foaming mouth,
      wears filthy animal skins and a necklace of wizard teeth. His hands
      are covered in blood. His ATTENDANTS are dressed in similarly
      barbaric regalia, and each carries bright torches. They stand
      before ERIN and KARL, triumphant.]</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">CRAD: Look at the princess! Now that I, Crad, the revenging
      angel of goblinkind, has come to spill wizard blood… now she
      cowers! This is the price your people pay for their crimes. It is
      natural for vengeance to follow foul deeds, as one season follows
      another... and this is my harvest season… and your season of
      death!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">ERIN: I am a noble witch of Britain, sir, and I do not
      cower. That is a thing for beasts.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">KARL: [Boldly] And goblins.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">CRAD: [Gnashes his teeth and jumps up and down, waving his
      arms.] Still you defy me, though this miserable village lies in
      ashes?! Though every beast lies dead, and even the flax smolders in
      the fields?!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">KARL: We do.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">ERIN: And so shall we ever. The choice between right and
      wrong is as clear as the difference between night and day. And if
      there were aught others to witness this, perhaps in some later day,
      then I would declare to them that they need only use their eyes to
      tell the difference between good and evil! And what seeing wizard,
      witnessing the ugliness and needless cruelty of evil, could fail to
      promise to seek the good of their own kind?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">- "The Last Days of Exses O'Bruinan," by S. Leigh, as staged in
      the 1979 London production.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">John Snow Center for Medicine and Tower School of Doubt (The
      Tower)</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">May 18th, 1999</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The same day</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why did you keep this place a secret to so many, Mr. Potter?"
      asked Meldh, calmly. He glanced around the small room as they
      emerged from a nightmarish corridor of traps and wards and locks -
      including even a five-minute waiting period that considerably
      amused Meldh.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The room was still sparsely furnished. There were stacks of
      cassette tapes and several auto-players sitting in a thick mass of
      Lovegood Leaf. There was a small wooden stool, with a yellow legal
      pad and mechanical pencil set upon it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a black box.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't answer for a moment, glancing over at the box,
      which remained silent. He walked over to the auto-players instead,
      where a quiet voice was reading a book-on-tape aloud. Harry bent
      down and turned it off, and the recorded sentence was strangled
      mid-word: "His professions might be sincere; but in the situation
      where fortune had placed him, it was scarcely poss-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Potter?" prompted Meldh.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is the second Tower," Harry said. "Before this, there was
      another facility… one that was part of Hogwarts. There was… an
      attack. A powerful wizard who had been driven insane with grief. He
      said that he wanted us to bring back his child, but I think it was
      a form of suicide for him. He'd planned it - arranged for a message
      to be sent from the future to stop us from using Time-Turners to
      stop him. He killed Hermione. Killed her phoenix."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed. "At that time, I'd transfigured Voldemort into a
      small stone, so that I didn't have to kill him. But during the
      attack, Hermione threw me to safety, and when I landed, I lost the
      ring. And it was then that I realized that if I'd been seriously
      hurt or killed… well, Voldemort could have awakened or been freed,
      with the Philosopher's Stone right at hand. Moody had warned me of
      this before, and we'd taken additional measures, but… well, that
      plan wasn't going to work. Of all the possible solutions to keeping
      hold of him, I'd been taking one of the riskiest possible. So I set
      to work finding a solution. It was easier than I'd thought… many
      wizards in the past had worked on transferring or creating
      consciousness in artificial environments, enough to be actually
      worrying. This form of mandrake, when properly prepared, holds his
      consciousness. But I knew that many people wouldn't share my ethics
      about going to such lengths - that they might prefer more lethal
      solutions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see," mused Meldh. They both looked at the box for a moment,
      contemplatively. Voldemort remained silent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are mistaken, though, Mr. Potter," Meldh added. "It was we
      who sent that message. We'd known the gentleman for some time,
      after he intruded on our meeting place. An early attempt at an
      intervention in your affairs. Ineffective, I'm afraid… but perhaps
      that's for the best, now that I consider the matter in
      hindsight."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's eyes were closed, and he staggered to the side. He
      clutched for the wall but fell short, dropping to one knee. He
      gasped, "Killed Granville… so many people… sir, I can't… I'm
      sorry…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Meldh shook his head and smiled kindly. He walked over to Harry
      and bent down, putting a comforting hand on the young man's back.
      "It's all right, just give it a moment. This is my fault, I'm
      afraid… I have changed very little in you. Just your… ah, there is
      no word. Just your <em class="calibre7">telos</em>. The most important things for
      you. So there is some conflict. But my alterations cannot be
      overcome. Fear not."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fear," said Voldemort, suddenly. Meldh turned his head sharply
      and stood up straight at the sound, but did not appear alarmed. As
      ever, his expression was pleasant. It suited the older man
      well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am not aping you," continued the voice from the box in
      neutral male tones. "That is a suggestion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Meldh didn't respond immediately. Instead, he walked closer,
      scrutinizing the black box. After a moment, he said, "I do not
      accept your suggestion, but thank you for it. You are Tom Riddle?
      Or is it the more recent name - Professor Quirrell - that you go
      by?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have had many names," said Voldemort. "Please address me as
      best suits you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well, Lord Voldemort," said Meldh, smiling. "I am a
      visitor to the Tower. You may call me Meldh - an old word from my
      youth."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a pause, then Voldemort said, "Your implication is
      obvious. But that is not a credible lie. I will thank you not to
      insult my intelligence, Meldh, if we are to speak."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh?" asked Meldh, raising his voice slightly to be heard over
      Harry's gasping sobs, as the young man struggled to control
      himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"While I do not know if my faculties have been affected by this
      prison, I am not yet a gibbering moron," said Voldemort.
      "Accordingly, I am not credulous enough to accept the existence of
      such antiquity without rather more proof than that. It is apparent
      that you have directly interceded to enforce your will on Mr.
      Potter in some manner. Such an intervention would come at some
      risk, no matter your abilities. If you took even the most miniscule
      of risks regularly, even only once in the span of each century,
      then it is not credible that you would be here, alive. Fate is
      fickle." The voice from the box formed an artificial chuckle. "On
      that, you may take my word."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Interesting," said Meldh, pleasantly. He did not comment
      further, but tilted his head to one side. He lifted one palm and
      stretched it to the box, and whispered some words with syllables as
      harsh as knives.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After some time, Meldh lowered his palm and raised his eyebrows.
      "Ah. This box. There used to be three of these. I do not know if
      the others survive. But this is well. Destroying this one will
      ensure that, even if the others exist, they are useless for their
      other purposes." He smiled, gently. "Kári Orden would be amused to
      see one of her boxes used as a zoo." He leaned forward, reaching
      out his hand as though to touch the box. He stopped short, however,
      his palm held over the fine black surface. A whisper of red light
      flickered across the box's surface.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You little tyrants have always been useful. You swirl like a
      whirlwind, drawing lore and devices into your chaotic storm. You
      kill off rivals, steal items of power, and break open hidden
      hoards. And eventually, thanks to a hero - and sometimes with the
      help of the Lethe Touch or the Ritual of Home or the Dustukhíascue
      - you and much of what you've gathered are destroyed." Meldh
      straightened back up, smiling again. "You do the world much good
      with your attempted evil."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Across the small room, Harry was gathering himself to his feet,
      finally. His face was reddened with emotion, and his hair had come
      loose across his shoulders. He looked as though he'd been to
      war.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are here to end me," said Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, yes," said Meldh.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then I am in the most enjoyable position of advantage. All
      roads lead to my will. That has not been the case for some time,"
      said Voldemort. "You will forgive me for taking some pleasure in
      the situation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sir, he has cast a unique spell - a new version of the Horcrux
      spell," said Harry. His voice still sounded strained, but he was
      upright and trying as hard as possible to help. "If he is killed,
      or manages to kill himself, or even if he is simply returned to a
      human brain that the spell recognizes, then his spirit will be free
      to resurrect in another place. We developed a way to detect the
      Horcrux network and have destroyed many of them, but many others
      still remain… including at least one that is far beyond our means
      at the moment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My contingencies are numerous, laid over the course of many
      years and reinforced during the year of my return," said Voldemort.
      The bland voice conveyed a hint of mockery, somehow. "With the
      Goblet of Fire and the Resurrection Stone, two of the most potent
      artifacts still in existence, I have laid my traps."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Meldh nodded, smiling pleasantly, and glanced back at Harry. "Is
      that so, Mr. Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, sir. As far as I can tell, Voldemort never had access to
      the Goblet of Fire, despite what he says," Harry said, slowly.
      Voldemort made no reply or contradiction. "It is locked away in the
      Department of Mysteries… they consider it Cadmean Class: too
      dangerous to use or research. It was kept in a vault that is inside
      of some sort of magical lake or pond or something - some security
      to put it beyond everyone's reach without the Line of Merlin - and
      it has been there for many years, since they stopped holding the
      Triwizard Tournament. Even I've never seen it, although I did spend
      some time looking for its companion device - or the pieces of it,
      anyway." Harry held up his left hand, clad like the other in a
      fingerless glove, and tapped the smooth round decoration that was
      slightly raised from its palm. "Ancient and powerful enough to be
      effective decoys for the real Philosopher's Stone." Harry paused,
      thoughtfully, and a drop of sweat trickled down the side of his
      face. He added, "But I suspect that the Professor only said this
      because he wanted that information, since he anticipates going free
      once killed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And will he, Mr. Potter?" asked Meldh, gently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Some time ago, some researchers with the Tower and the
      Unspeakables - Mafalda Hopkirk, Dolores Umbridge, Luna Lovegood,
      Basil Horton, and Nemeniah Salieri - adapted a Dark Detector to be
      extremely sensitive and able to detect even the weakest of magical
      energies. It didn't have much initial use, since in any magical
      area, the background magical energies would swamp it. But more
      recently, we developed that," Harry answered, pointing at the
      Lovegood Leaf. "It consumes ambient magic in the air. It's proven
      to be useful in allowing us to employ Muggle devices alongside
      magical ones, sir, but when combined with thaumometers, we are able
      to trace even very faint magical connections such as Floo
      networks... or a network of Horcruxes. He has many… but he is now
      separate from all of them except the Resurrection Stone, since they
      are all outside of the Tower. This is a world apart. But while the
      Resurrection Stone or any other Horcrux is present in the Tower
      within the Mirror... yes, he could go free. It is best not to kill
      him, sir."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"These are things I saw in Mr. Potter's mind, Lord Voldemort,
      and all quite true," said Meldh, turning back to the box. "You
      might understand why I was interested, since you have correctly
      divined that I… implied a rather greater age than is strictly
      accurate."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a long pause.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lord Foul," said Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Archon Heraclius Hero," corrected Meldh, still smiling. "But
      yes, I am known to history as the 'Slithering One' or 'Lord Foul,'
      thanks to the very effective tales of four famous witches and
      wizards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was staring openly at Meldh, awe and disgust and pain all
      in combat on his face. "You're Herpo the Foul… who invented the
      Horcrux spell? Who fought Rowena Ravenclaw, Godric Gryffindor,
      Salazar Slytherin, and Helga Hufflepuff?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. Good people, all - or rather, well-intentioned. But even
      then, in my youth, I saw further than such as they. I knew the
      dangers of will-work - broaching other worlds and inviting them
      into our own. Even then, I could not understand why so few wizards
      understood the lessons of Atlantis." Meldh shook his head,
      ruefully. "The great school of Hogwarts had been prophesied -
      indeed, prophecy was perhaps the very thing that led those four to
      band together, for what else but great glory and great threat could
      have done so? - and so I attempted to intervene. A mighty
      stronghold of magical education and research was not in the best
      interests of the world, and I wished to save us all," said Meldh,
      agreeably and without a trace of pride.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You failed and died, if the stories are true," said
      Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. But I was not gone, thanks to some precautions. And my
      efforts were noticed by another," replied Meldh. "But of that we
      shall not speak."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well," said Voldemort. "Then your purpose remains the
      same? I wonder if Mr. Potter is still able to appreciate the irony?
      Are you intact in there, behind this spell of control?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Lethe Touch," said Meldh, helpfully, smiling again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have read of it," said Voldemort curtly. "So, Mr. Potter - do
      you see the irony?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Professor," said Harry, closing his eyes once more and
      wrapping his arms around his stomach. "It's me. And I can see the
      irony."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is the irony?" asked Meldh, curious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We have the same goals - maybe even many of the same values,
      sir," said Harry. "Or rather, I have one goal now, to serve you as
      best I can, but before -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Meldh shook his head and waved his hand dismissively. "I
      understand, it's all right," he said. "You mean that we both wish
      to save the world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And yet you fundamentally disagree, Mr. Potter. It is not a
      question of truth or evidence, is it?" asked Voldemort. "You have
      the same purpose in the same world, and yet you disagree. And how
      was that disagreement resolved?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"With force," said Harry, reluctantly. "My mind was altered
      against my will."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Meldh glanced with interest back and forth between Harry and the
      box. "I do not understand the messages hidden beneath the surface,
      here, but I have observed your minions often enough, Mr. Potter, to
      know that you have no objection to force. You have several
      individuals in your employ whose efforts are directed almost
      exclusively to force - stunning Muggles and providing them with new
      memories as you deem fit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Weaponizing cognitive dissonance," said Harry, nodding again,
      even more reluctantly. "But the Professor is offering me a lesson
      on dominance, not ethics."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see," said Meldh. "Well then, I believe we have spent enough
      time at this. Enough time here." He adjusted the front of his
      simple robes, and looked around them. "This is a threat that you
      did not have the heart to end - a threat that you still call
      'Professor.' A threat that has managed to worm within your heart
      and mind, despite being imprisoned and powerless. The world has
      nothing to gain from this creature's existence, and much to lose."
      Meldh did not appear saddened by his words, but neither did he seem
      happy - or even cold. Rather, he spoke with a quiet and inoffensive
      resignation. "Unless you have something else you wish to say, Lord
      Voldemort?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Will you entertain argument?" asked Voldemort, calm in his own
      right.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will listen to anything you wish to say, but no, I will not
      change my mind," said Meldh. "I am sorry. You are too dangerous,
      and your restraints are too uncertain. My purpose has not changed
      since the fields of Alto Alentejo, among the broken marble of
      Estremoz, where I led my tarasque and Dementors in a great battle
      against four titans from prophecy. Neither the double death of a
      Hero and his name, that day, nor the long passage of millennia
      since have altered my purpose, which I have sought in a thousand
      different ways on a thousand different days. I will not give you a
      cruel and false hope. Your fate awaits, and will not change."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see," said Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's hair was wild, half-covering his face. Some strands
      stuck to one cheek, wet with tears.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then let me say this," said Voldemort, speaking with leaden
      seriousness. "It is not too late."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Meldh smiled, but didn't reply. He listened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Truly," Voldemort went on, "you even now have the chance for an
      equitable and peaceful solution. If you undo your control of Mr.
      Potter and his little friends, he will not seek vengeance for what
      you have done. Astoundingly and against all sense, he will be
      willing work with you - to find a path forward. He believes he is a
      hero, and he believes heroes must always show mercy and seek the
      path of nonviolence where possible. He is not troubled by the
      conflict between effectiveness and mercy that is obvious to you and
      me.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To all appearances, you have found an easy victory here. That
      should be the most obvious of warning signs. Mr. Potter's footsteps
      are littered with the corpses of those who once thought him their
      catspaw. And I assure you, as a ragged and trapped spirit who once
      opposed him, that Mr. Potter's cataclysms are all the more terrible
      for their lack of malice. His cruelty is beyond even my own
      imaginings, for it results from misguided mercy… and should you be
      so fortunate as to survive, you will not even have the consolation
      of hate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Take my advice, old one. Relent. Recant. Retreat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Meldh waited to be sure Voldemort was done, then mildly replied,
      "I think not." He sounded amused at the thought. "Your kindness is
      appreciated, however. Why not simply enjoy the thought that the boy
      will destroy me in due course? He himself has no knowledge of any
      such plans, I assure you, but why do you show such
      benevolence?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort laughed. It was a cold, mocking laugh, twisting the
      limits of the generic male voice. For just a moment, it sounded
      exactly like the Professor Quirrell that once was: cynical and
      clever, cruel and caustic. A broken man who was without joy or
      love, and who found solace only the cold pleasure of ambition
      fulfilled and dominance achieved. Mentor and monster.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am offering you fair warning and a peaceful alternative,"
      Voldemort said, and there was triumph in his words. "If you truly
      do not understand that these words are the greatest damage I can do
      to you, then you will deserve your fate."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I hope that you find comfort in such thoughts," said Meldh,
      softly. He turned to Harry. "Do what we discussed, please, Mr.
      Potter. The world is more important than sentiment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, sir," Harry said. He pulled his wand out of his sleeve. He
      and Meldh both walked over to the entrance to the extended space -
      the narrow corridor buzzing with traps and wards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry pulled a lump of tungsten from his pocket.
      <em class="calibre7">"Geminio</em>," he cast on it, twirling his wand over its
      surface. One lump became two, and after a moment, that became four,
      then there were seven, then twelve, then twenty. Within seconds,
      metal began to clatter from Harry's palm. He tossed what was left
      in his hand across the room, scattering it, and the tungsten
      continued replicating itself even as it flew through the air:
      thirty-three, fifty-four, eighty-eight, lumps of metal raining
      down, cracking loudly on the stone and a black box that shivered
      with red light.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Meldh stepped back into the corridor, and Meldh
      gestured at the door. Thin blue crystal grew from the ceiling and
      floor, covering the entrance. It was translucent, and through its
      cerulean screen the two wizards watched as the room rapidly filled
      with replicating metal. Normally, it would decay and vanish before
      too long. But the Philosopher's Stone, embedded in Harry's right
      glove, could make it permanent. It was not a trick he'd often used,
      since it threatened the illusion of "special Transfiguration webs"
      that they used to explain the feats of the Tower healers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a very short time, there was no more room left in the
      small chamber beyond the blue crystal. The replicating metal filled
      all available space. The two wizards could no longer see anything
      but a blue-tinted irregular wall of metal. Harry ended the Gemino
      Curse with a touch of his will, lowering a trembling wand to his
      side. His teeth were gritted, and the back of his robes was dark
      with sweat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Meldh folded his arms, and they stood there, quietly. Gently,
      the older wizard asked, "Would it help you to take a moment?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, sir," said Harry, laboriously. "I'm sorry… it's difficult
      to manage my feelings." He shuddered and wrapped his arms around
      his stomach, clutching himself and bending over slightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I understand," Meldh said. He reached forward and touched the
      blue crystal screen with one finger, and an opening appeared - no
      more than a palm-span wide. A few chunks of tungsten fell through
      and free, but the pressure from above kept most of them in
      place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry tried to stand up straight and raise his wand, but
      shuddered again, bending back over. He gasped, "I just… I'm…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let me help you," Meldh said. Gently, he lifted Harry's arm,
      raising it until the wand in the young man's grip was at the level
      of the hole in the screen. "You may say goodbye, if you wish."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Goodbye, Professor!" Harry screamed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His face reddened as he screamed it again - screamed it as
      loudly as he could.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Goodbye, Professor! Goodbye! I'm sorry!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Screamed</em> the words... to try to be heard through the
      mass of metal, to try to be heard through everything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a reply. It should have been impossible, really. Harry
      had cast the Thoughtsay Ritual himself, following the dictates of
      parchment scrupulously, and it should not have been able to get so
      <em class="calibre7">loud</em>. But it happened, nonetheless, by whatever trick or
      manipulation. And that reply was not forgiveness or kindness or
      pleading.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was scorn.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bah!" howled Lord Voldemort with a cold laugh, a last word of
      mockery and hatred, and then the voice failed with a warble and
      squeal of magical sound.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Meldh frowned. "No grace, even now. A sad end. Do it," he
      commanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry closed his eyes and touched his wand to the pieces of
      tungsten in the room. After a moment, they gently slipped out of
      shape, flowing together, forming a solid mass - an immense plug of
      metal, filling almost the whole room and burying Voldemort in a
      metal coffin ten feet thick.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Harry lifted his other hand and pressed his gloved palm to
      the surface of the metal.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And that was the story of Tom Riddle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Hermione's Mobile Mary, Powis Castle, Wales</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">May 19th, 1999</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The next morning</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione awoke with tears on her face. She'd been dreaming of
      Granville. She could hear the echo of his cry still - hear the joy
      of it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione?" said Esther, pushing open the door to the Mobile
      Mary gently, peering inside the darkened space. Morning sunlight
      was visible outside, bright on the gardens of Powis. "Sorry, but
      there's a message for you from Harry. You asked to be woken? Are
      you all right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wiping her face on her sleeve, Hermione nodded, sniffling. She
      sat up. "Yes… just a bad dream. What does Harry want?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Esther held up a parchment. "Nothing serious, it seems like… he
      just wants you to come around. Says he has someone he wants you to
      meet."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
