<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>46. Significant Digits pt2 - Significant Digits Chapter 56: Penultimate, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="46. Significant Digits pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s28" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 56: Penultimate</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione had a moment to think as she and the Returned climbed
      through the air away from Hogwarts, zipping over the school grounds
      towards Hogsmeade. It was a short distance - a few minutes' flight
      - but she took the opportunity afforded her to think beyond the
      immediate tactical situation. Strategy, not only the demands of the
      moment, needed to dictate her movements. And right now, she didn't
      have any sort of larger strategy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">How could I? How do you fight an enemy that breaks all the
      rules of the game?</em> Hermione thought to herself. The Three were
      attacking - <em class="calibre7">Well, now it must be the Two, really</em>, she
      thought, thinking about the unremarkable white stone that was
      sitting inside of a small, mundane iron box in the Headmistress'
      coat pocket. But Meldh had wrought havoc and almost brought the
      entire world under his control with <em class="calibre7">one spell</em>… It had
      taken an ancient artifact and years of planning to create a
      safeguard against that kind of attack, and even then it might have
      failed if things had gone a little differently. At that last
      moment, if Meldh had the wits or resources to draw up another spell
      from his ages of lore, there was literally no predicting what he
      might have been able to do to her or Harry - even with his throat
      missing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old books were full of fantastical feats and mighty deeds,
      and attempting to sort out the historical from the apocryphal was
      more a work of literary criticism than historical research. "Lord
      Foul" was said to have commanded dementors and basilisks and
      terresque, but was that a real spell of command that the Three
      might deploy, or simply a legend that the writer thought was
      appropriate for a infamous dark wizard?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Normally Hermione would be able to rule some things out - a
      secret spell from the past that allowed its caster to stop
      someone's heart without the possibility of dodging or warding, for
      example. If such a spell had existed, it would have made the one
      who invented it into an unstoppable force. History would look
      different.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But according to Harry, Meldh had implied that the Three had
      been in hidden control of events for generations, which meant that
      they might actually <em class="calibre7">be</em> an unstoppable force.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're using all the powers of the old world," Harry had said,
      "everything that's always worked for villains like them in the days
      gone by. But we're going to use all the powers of our new world to
      match them, and we're going to beat them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But unless they had some brilliant ideas very soon, she couldn't
      see how.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione heard a dull popping sound from far below among the
      trudging mass of mind-controlled Muggles - no, <em class="calibre7">people</em> -
      and pulled up on her broom. The Returned matched her, and they rose
      higher yet. They were already too high to be under real threat from
      rifle fire, even if they hadn't been warded, but there was no point
      in risking it. She glanced around her, making sure everyone was
      with her and uninjured. Hyori and Esther rode on either side of
      her. Charlevoix and Urg followed them, staggered at different
      altitudes, while Susie, Tonks, Nikitas, and Jessie were spread out
      in a third, staggered row. Simon's absence was conspicuous.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Simon. My solid rock. Sweet, solid Simon. Gone now.</em>
      Hermione wished she could have been there - to save him, to help
      him, even just to hold his hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd been the first one she'd saved.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">It was still been raining when Hermione began pulling open
      the cell doors. The walls of Azkaban had been battered, and a great
      jagged fissure had split one of the three sides to the prison;
      Granville had carried her through and they had landed within, and
      for the first time in centuries, the broken halls of Azkaban felt
      the cleansing cool of the rain.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Most of the cells were empty. Most of the prisoners were
      gone, transferred to the new Howard Prison or simply released. But
      there were still people here.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">One door was stuck. Hermione forced her fingers around its
      edge, the stone cracking loudly through the patter of rain, and
      wrenched the door open. Another empty cell - no, there was someone
      here.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">She stepped into the cell, and let gentle orange flame
      illuminate it. Granville made a small sound, shifting in position
      on her shoulder. It was a sound of remorse or admonition.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The person was lying on their side, staring up at the
      ceiling. Rotting alive, with black leprous streaks of infection
      spreading from great mottled sores, entwined maladies spread across
      a withered chest. As warm light touched the person's face, they
      slowly closed their eyes and turned towards her. What did they see
      when they looked at her - just a soaked teenager with a phoenix and
      a scared look on her face? Who did they think she was?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">She reached out a reassuring hand to the person as she
      approached.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">My name is Hermione Granger. I'm here to help
      you."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">And now he was gone. Brave Simon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her attention snapped back to the present as they passed the
      gates to Hogsmeade, and she saw new enemies. Not just the endless
      flood of weapon-wielding Muggles, but two other groups.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A large wedge of witches and wizards in robes was slowly, almost
      casually, making their way through the mass. They walked in good
      order right along the stone-paved path from Hogsmeade, as though
      they were merely a group of forty students returning from a trip to
      Honeydukes. The Muggles parted before them as though directed by an
      invisible force. <em class="calibre7">Something to do with the spell controlling the
      Muggles, or something about the orders they'd been given, or… maybe
      these are involved in the control or can give directions?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione felt cold run up her back as she recognized - even from
      this height - some of the enemy. Councilor Limpel Tineagar.
      Bellatrix Black, with one eye and one arm (her artificial arm, the
      Gripmain, presumably still lay in the vaults of the Department of
      Mysteries). Some of the strangers wore markings on their robes that
      Hermione recognized as the sigils of Grindelwald's death squads,
      the Hírnökei; she could see the red sword of the Záh Kardja and the
      red hand of the Veres Kezek. No Grindelwald himself - a small mercy
      in this tide of nightmares.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And yet even this was not the end, for behind this infantry of
      dark wizards was a cavalry of monsters.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She recognized the basilisks. The ten enormous serpents were
      following a lone witch in a green dress, seeming to mimic her
      movements. As she walked, they swayed to match the swing of her
      hips, and their gaze was clearly fixed on her back to the exclusion
      of all else. The basilisks were at least fifty feet long, perhaps
      more; the portion of their serpentine bodies that they held upright
      was as tall as a single-storey Muggle home.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Behind the basilisks was another mass of creatures - terrifying
      things that could only be terresque. They had broad shells on their
      backs, rough as chipped stone, and moved on six stubby legs with
      shiny red scales. They were huge - ten feet high, with round black
      heads as large as a lion's, and great mouths that smoked with some
      sort of vapour. As they lumbered along, they resembled nothing so
      much as a mad cross between a tank and a turtle and a parade
      float.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As both groups came into view and as soon as she grasped what
      she was seeing, Hermione immediately reacted. They couldn't handle
      this - not with so few people. She yanked her broom to one side as
      sharply as she dared, almost colliding with Hyori before the
      Returned could match her change of heading. Should they be trying
      to transfigure protective goggles or something, in case the
      basilisks' stare reached them at this distance? No, no time, and
      they needed free wands. The important thing was to get back out of
      sight and warn everyone else. Luna already had one task, but now
      Hermione had something else for her, too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The witches and wizards weren't mounted - strange, but in
      keeping with their lack of hurry in a time of war - and so there
      was a chance that Hermione and her people might get away before any
      conflict could begin. She heard a distant shout from below as they
      wheeled about, but the enemy wouldn't manage more than one or two
      attacks before the Returned were clear. <em class="calibre7">My God… in addition to
      a seemingly endless horde of Muggles, we'll also be fighting the
      denizens of Howard and Nurmengard?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">A bolt of green light streaked past, veering wide. It was joined
      by another, placed more accurately and blistering through the air
      between Esther and Charlevoix. A thick gust of steam blew into the
      group almost at the same time, but it was without force at this
      distance, and the Returned were putting distance between them and
      the enemy with every moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was no point in engaging, but a thought did occur to
      Hermione - obvious, in retrospect. She slackened her pace just
      slightly, and brought her wand to her throat. "<em class="calibre7">Sonorus</em>,"
      she cast, and then bellowed at the top of her lungs,
      "<em class="calibre7">Egeustimentis Ba</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was an immediate response below, as four or five of the
      witches and wizards began firing on each other. A fireball erupted
      among the group, cast by one of its number. Hermione grinned, and
      leaned further into her broom, urging more speed. They still needed
      to prepare for the monsters.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An odd hooting sound startled her. It sounded like a giant owl -
      and it seemed far too close, as though it somehow cut through the
      rushing wind. Hermione jerked her head to the side and looked for
      the source, but saw nothing. She could see Urg looking puzzled, and
      knew she hadn't been the only one who heard it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Susie fell out of the sky, tumbling off her broom, slapping
      at something that was wrapped around her head. Hermione only caught
      a glimpse of it as Susie tumbled away - a naked thing of skin and
      teeth, vibrating violently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then Hermione was diving after her, her broom vertical, arm
      stretched out and golden gauntlet reaching. She could hear Susie
      screaming - shrieking at the top of her voice, louder than a person
      should be able to scream, agony tearing out of her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Shouldn't do this no time stupid stupid</em>, she thought,
      in a confused jumble that didn't shake her from her course in the
      slightest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione <em class="calibre7">strained</em> forward, trying to force herself to
      go faster, to dive more quickly, to reach farther. Susie tumbled
      away in a tangle of robes and blood, beating at the thing on her
      face and chest until it fell away, tossed in the wind. The ground
      rose towards Hermione and Susie, surging up to meet them as they
      fell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She reached and <em class="calibre7">reached</em> and</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Got her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As her hand clamped down on Susie's ankle, Hermione kicked
      herself savagely back, hauling on the front of her broom so
      fiercely that she felt the wood strain and crack dangerously in her
      grip. She pulled up into a swoop, the bottom of the arc dipping
      within arm's reach of a crowd of threatening Muggles, dragging them
      both back up into the sky without letting go of a drop of speed.
      The violent motion wrenched Susie badly, and Hermione felt
      something in the witch's leg give - the hip or knee - but Hermione
      had her, thank God thank God, she had her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They rocketed forward, Hermione leaning forward and holding the
      broom steady with her left hand. With the other, she pulled Susie
      up, lifting the witch's lower body over the front of the broom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But Susie was dead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her face and chest were a mess of bloody meat, ground and torn
      as though by some monstrous industrial machine. Her mouth was agape
      - a lifeless black wound in the shredded flesh.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's eyes burned with the wind and her rage, and she
      clenched her jaw. She leaned forward, though, gripping Susie in
      place. Stay focused. Susie could still be saved.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The rest of the Returned joined her moments later, swooping down
      to fall in line with her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione heard more hooting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">No no no what</em> is <em class="calibre7">that?!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Esther pulled even with Hermione, and leaned over. She grabbed
      one of Susie's arms, pulling on the witch. Hermione understood what
      she wanted, and helped, seizing the back of Susie's robes and
      lifting the witch from one broom onto the other, fighting with the
      other hand to keep their flight steady.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was another hooting sound, and something collided with
      Esther, her broom, and Susie. The two witches were gone, as
      immediately as if they'd been struck from the sky by lightning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione wheeled in her seat, and saw… <em class="calibre7">something</em>. Not a
      physical thing so much as a flow of sensations. It was something
      like the use of wandless magic: the purposeful movement of
      particular ideas. But this was somehow visible, and moving, and
      malevolent. A collection of sensations, divorced from sanity and
      sense.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Large eyes. Black and oily. Wet.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">White skin. Flaky, run through with spidering cracks. Ragged
      in places, as gnawed.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Long, thin limbs. Sparse flesh. Lumpy joint.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Mouth. Smile.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Smile.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">And there were more, leaping up around them. Hooting with mirth.
      They were <em class="calibre7">so fast</em>; Hermione was on a broom at top speed
      and they were <em class="calibre7">leaping at her</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Without word or order or request, Hyori and Charlevoix broke
      away from the Hermione and the rest of the Returned. Hermione
      twisted to see once more, and they flew around and back, in a
      circle back to where Esther and Susie had fallen. Their curses flew
      as quickly as they could cast them, but the creatures were too
      quick and too inchoate. Even the spells that seemed to hit had no
      effect. They leapt at Hyori and Charlevoix, hooting, and the pair
      vanished, plucked out of the air.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione turned back around, gritting her teeth again, and her
      hands tightened on her broom. She fought to stay calm - fought to
      stay under control.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Esther and Charlevoix. The French witch had once been nearly
      catatonic, breaking into screams every time she was separated from
      Hermione. Esther had been very quiet, too, for a time; injured deep
      within herself by betrayal and her own anger. But the two had found
      each other during this past year in some new way - Hermione hadn't
      pried. They were even leaving Powis - they'd just recently gotten a
      cottage in Godric's Hollow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hyori. An enigma, even to Hermione. Laconic and deadly serious,
      imprisoned for murder, but with some hidden depth that Hermione had
      never understood. She'd made a game of things in subtle ways, and
      her sharp eyes had always hinted at thoughts the witch had never
      revealed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Susie. Lascivious and sarcastic, delighting in affecting
      cockney, alluding to a sexuality she used like armor. Like all of
      the Returned, she'd left some piece of herself with the dementors,
      but she was bravest of them all in trying to reclaim it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione, Tonks, Urg, Nikitas, and Jessie flew on, back to
      Hogwarts and back to help.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not that Hermione could imagine what help would suffice. What
      could anyone do in this situation? What weapons did they have that
      would work?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And again: what did these damned monsters even
      <em class="calibre7">want</em>?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This didn't make <em class="calibre7">any sense</em>! Why was the enemy entering
      through Hogsmeade, and not right outside the castle - or for that
      matter, why not right <em class="calibre7">inside</em> the castle? They didn't know
      the limits of the spell, but Bellatrix had used it to simply appear
      within Hogwarts, so why not do that again?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For that matter, why go to war like this at all? Harry had said
      that Meldh had only said that "a great and fearsome god" was
      calling for "blood"... part of some larger plan to eliminate magic
      from the world. That last bit accorded with what Tineagar had said
      back in Tidewater. That seemed like years ago, now… Tineagar had
      claimed she was fighting to stop the world from breaking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They were wasting resources, unless they had some hidden aim.
      Their plan had been for Meldh to take Harry's place, with Harry in
      some "new shape" as an enslaved advisor. But preparations for this
      attack must have started, at the latest, well before Hermione went
      to the Tower. The Muggle news, she'd learned, had begun reporting
      disappearances in the morning. So why were the Three essentially
      attacking each other? It couldn't be infighting or rivalry, since
      Meldh had known about it to mention to Harry. It was part of a
      plan. But she couldn't see what that plan's goal might be, in light
      of the Three's goal of ending all magic. Were they trying to start
      a war between Muggles and wizards? Or just trying to kill off as
      many wizards as possible? Or was it just a distraction from a trio
      of monsters who had no particular regard for the lives of others?
      And how would they react to the loss of Meldh?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Oh</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's broom wobbled as she suddenly realized something,
      letting go with one hand to snatch her bubbler out of her robes.
      She lay her will upon it, picturing Harry; he answered almost
      immediately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry!" she shouted, calling at the top of her voice to be
      heard over the wind, unwilling to slacken the pace of her speeding
      broom even a fraction, "Meldh was going to take your place!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His eyes lit up, and she knew he understood: to the other two
      members of the Three, the world might not look any different from
      one in which Meldh had succeeded and was in control of the Tower.
      They might not have heard her use the counterspell, if they weren't
      near that group of wizards. They might still think everything was
      going according to plan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was an uncomfortable moment when Draco realized he wasn't in
      charge. He arrived in the Great Hall with Mad-Eye and Diggory at
      his side and twenty aurors in tow (and one Gregory Goyle).
      Longbottom and Bogdanova were there, and told him that Granger had
      left operating orders and then had gone flying off to do her usual
      routine (jumping from really high, getting in over her head,
      discovering she was actually a bit rubbish at magic, and resorting
      to punching things like a Muggle). Her plans were good ones, but
      they still needed someone in command. The Lord Malfoy (now the
      greatest of that name, one of the handful of people in command of
      the <em class="calibre7">entire world</em>) drew himself up to his full height and
      readied himself for the burden.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But before he could begin, Mad-Eye had already taken control
      from a perch on the rooftop over the great doors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You there, get back here - get on that roof, no need to be
      flying around!" he roared, pointing at one of the groups in the
      air. "Use the castle and hold this ground! Keep them back, but
      Hogwarts is stone from the ancients - <em class="calibre7">use it!</em> And for
      Merlin's sake, everyone put up a <em class="calibre7">bloody bubble</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Chastened, Draco tapped his wand to his head, casting,
      "<em class="calibre7">Bullesco.</em>" He felt the uncomfortable feeling as a bubble
      swelled from one nostril, inflating until it encompassed his
      head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They went to work.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It soon became clear that standard dueling tactics were useless.
      There were simply too many of the enemy, and those methods had
      already failed one group of defenders. It was simple math: even if
      every auror was able to kill a hundred Muggles, there would still
      be more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Instead, they focused on attacks that affected a wide area - not
      those rare spells that could do damage on a large scale, for those
      were deeply draining. Instead, they used attacks on the terrain,
      and innovative Transfigurations.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The fliers dispersed from a height something called "sarin" out
      among the Muggles, far away from the castle. Within minutes, it
      began crippling and killing huge swaths of the enemy. At the same
      time, other fliers dropped large metal canisters that Mad-Eye
      transfigured; the blastbombs detonated into fiery explosions as
      they landed among the Muggle horde.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Closer by, defenders picked off those Muggles who managed to
      reach the top of the hill and the castle walls, and used the
      Butterball Charm to make it almost impossible to make the approach.
      Some still got close enough to attack with their weapons - they
      became targets, too. One fired a ranged blastbomb which leapt from
      its tubelike gun and blew up against the castle wall, as though it
      were conjured fire. It did but minor damage to the school, but it
      was dangerous nonetheless. A massed horde of Muggles, despite their
      limitations, were a fearsome threat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">It's like the ancient wars, the stories from old</em>, Draco
      thought, with a tingle of excitement and unease. Muggles dies in
      droves, and from a perch on a balcony above the great doors, Draco
      lashed out to protect everything he had come to value, fighting a
      war he had never really believed would come.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In only a few minutes, he was starting to feel sick. But there
      was nothing for it. He swallowed hard and leaned over the railing,
      twirling his wand, "<em class="calibre7">Stupefy! Stupefy!</em>" Two more Muggles
      fell back, stunned, dropping into a frictionless slurry of
      liquified stone and vanishing from sight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A movement from above caught his eye, and he glanced up to see
      Granger coming back, streaking through the air at top speed. Half
      of her band of fanatics were gone. But it looked like she was
      unhurt, he saw with relief.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She dropped down from the sky and swooped down to a stop near
      Mad-Eye on the roof, out of sight from Draco. "Alastor, there's a
      force of witches wizards on the way here. Bellatrix and that
      American witch, Tineagar, and at least thirty others, including
      some of Grindelwald's old bunch."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But not Grindel himself," gruffed Mad-Eye. "Makes sense, since
      they tortured him into insanity twenty years ago."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco didn't even have time to be shocked by this news, as
      Granger went on. "There's worse… ten basilisks and almost as many
      rock-monster things - from the old legends, the terresque. And… and
      -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her voice ended in a strangled cry before she found her words
      again. "And something <em class="calibre7">else</em>. I don't know what, some sort
      of <em class="calibre7">creatures</em>. They're so <em class="calibre7">fast</em> and spells didn't
      <em class="calibre7">work.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry's in the library," replied Mad-Eye. Then he shouted at
      someone Draco couldn't see, calling roughly, "You lot, get down
      here!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Shichinin flew in from Draco's left, joining the pair on the
      roof. Draco turned his attention back to the battle as an explosion
      concussed the air, claiming another dozen lives, and picked off two
      more Muggles who'd separated from the pack and nearly reached the
      castle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Less than a minute later, the monsters arrived. Draco had never
      seen anything like them. Giant serpents - basilisks, he knew.
      Creatures with six legs the size of buildings. They tore through
      Muggles like the people weren't even there, crushing them underfoot
      as they stormed at Hogwarts across the castle grounds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monsters… what did you even <em class="calibre7">do</em> in a situation like
      this?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was nothing <em class="calibre7">to</em> do except handle one situation at
      a time, and wait for instructions. Three more Muggles reached the
      top of the slope, clambering on the partially-submerged bodies of
      their compatriots who had sunken into a sink of slippery stone, and
      Draco took them down. One of them raised a tube-weapon, but Draco
      thought he took him down in time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The next instant, everything went black and pain, jumbled up in
      a riot of impact. Draco found himself staring at the side of the
      castle, lying on the stones in front of the great doors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He lay there, ears filled with white noise, and tried to
      understand what had happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco rolled over onto his back, and coughed. It hurt
      abominably, as though something inside him was torn. But he
      couldn't stop himself, and coughed again, spasmodically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He stared up at the roof of the castle. Granger and the
      Shichinin were in flight again, a tight bunch. They flew down to
      him, pausing in the air a dozen yards away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">No time for this, do whatever you asinine plan might
      be</em>, Draco thought, scornfully. Weakly, he lifted a hand, and
      flapped it in a dismissive gesture.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Granger nodded at him, something unrecognizable on her face. She
      turned and waved at one of the Weasley twins, Merlin knows which
      one, and pointed down at something on the ground, out of Draco's
      view. "Fred!" she shouted, barely audible through Draco's ringing
      ears, "You guys take those and get high! Wait for my signal!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco put a hand to his forehead, and it came back red and wet.
      He felt dizzy and nauseous. Bile rose in his throat, and he leaned
      over to vomit. When he was finished, he'd barely straightened
      before he needed to throw up again. His legs felt weak, and he
      swayed in place, staggering to the side as he tried to stay
      upright.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A strong grip seized his forearm, held it tight, held him in
      place. Dazed, he looked to find an armored child holding his arm.
      No, not a child. A goblin, clad all over in shining silver.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Rest easy, wizard," said the goblin, its consonants guttural.
      "We'll need you yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco couldn't quite understand what he was seeing. Something
      was in his eyes; he swiped at his face with the sleeve of his robe,
      blinking rapidly as something stung his eyes. His Bubblehead Charm
      was broken, he realized. He needed to get it back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But for the moment, all he could do was fight to stand as the
      goblin let him go. It hefted a spear in its hand, and pointed it
      down the slope, to where the monsters were raging.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco held himself upright, and felt a moment's hope.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then he heard the strangest hooting noise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A solitary figure in plain grey robes, unseen and unnoticed,
      watched the fighting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They paused to flick their fingers through the air, whereupon a
      tracery of crimson light formed a sharp arrow, directing the
      figure's gaze to the castle itself and an unseen target within.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The figure picked their way carefully up the steep slope towards
      the Hufflepuff greenhouse, which was damaged and open. Where the
      way was inconvenient, the ground gently shifted itself, as though
      the earth itself was trying to be accommodating. The lone
      individual stepped delicately over broken panes of grass, and
      slipped inside the school.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They made their way to the library.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
